####  Processing

Please wait...

  * TOC
  * CHAPTER 1
  * CHAPTER 2
  * CHAPTER 3
  * CHAPTER 4
  * CHAPTER 5
  * CHAPTER 6
  * CHAPTER 7
  * CHAPTER 8
  * CHAPTER 9
  * CHAPTER 10
  * CHAPTER 11
  
Table of contents CHAPTER 1: THIS GUIDE AND ITS ANNEXES CHAPTER 2: WHAT IS THE
PCT? CHAPTER 3: THE INTERNATIONAL PHASE AND THE NATIONAL PHASE OF THE PCT
PROCEDURE CHAPTER 4: USEFULNESS OF THE PCT FOR APPLICANTS CHAPTER 5: FILING AN
INTERNATIONAL APPLICATION CHAPTER 6: PROCESSING OF THE INTERNATIONAL
APPLICATION BY THE RECEIVING OFFICE CHAPTER 7: THE INTERNATIONAL SEARCH
PROCEDURE: PROCESSING OF THE INTERNATIONAL APPLICATION BY THE INTERNATIONAL
SEARCHING AUTHORITY CHAPTER 8: SUPPLEMENTARY INTERNATIONAL SEARCH CHAPTER 9:
INTERNATIONAL PUBLICATION, AMENDMENT OF CLAIMS, AND OTHER PROCESSING OF THE
INTERNATIONAL APPLICATION BY THE INTERNATIONAL BUREAU CHAPTER 10:
INTERNATIONAL PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION UNDER CHAPTER II OF THE PCT CHAPTER 11:
MISCELLANEOUS QUESTIONS CONCERNING THE INTERNATIONAL PHASE

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide Introduction to the International Phase  

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **15 September 2023**

(published on 15 September 2023)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
From now on, you will find here a summary of changes to each new version of
the PCT Applicant's Guide, as well as the detailed list of these changes.
Moreover, you can now easily access the historical versions of the Guide.  
  
Please note that the 9 February 2023 version contains changes to adapt the
text to inclusive language.  
CHAPTERS 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 , 9, 10, 11 updated  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Table of contents

CHAPTER 1: THIS GUIDE AND ITS ANNEXES

INTRODUCTION

CHAPTER 2: WHAT IS THE PCT?

CHAPTER 3: THE INTERNATIONAL PHASE AND THE NATIONAL PHASE OF THE PCT PROCEDURE

CHAPTER 4: USEFULNESS OF THE PCT FOR APPLICANTS

REGIONAL PATENTS VIA THE PCT

CHAPTER 5: FILING AN INTERNATIONAL APPLICATION

GENERAL

THE REQUEST

Box No. I: Title of Invention

Boxes Nos. II and III: Applicants; Inventors

Box No. IV: Agent or Common Representative

Box No. V: Designation of States

Box No. VI: Priority Claim and Restoration of the Right of Priority

Box No. VII: International Searching Authority

Box No. VIII: Declarations

Box No. IX: Check List

Box No. X: Signature of Applicant or Agent

Notes to the Request Form

Fee Calculation Sheet

THE DESCRIPTION

THE CLAIMS

THE DRAWINGS

THE ABSTRACT

OTHER FORMAL REQUIREMENTS

FEES

CHAPTER 6: PROCESSING OF THE INTERNATIONAL APPLICATION BY THE RECEIVING OFFICE

GENERAL

INTERNATIONAL FILING DATE

TRANSLATION OF INTERNATIONAL APPLICATIONS

CORRECTION OF DEFECTS AND INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE OF MISSING ELEMENTS OR
PARTS, OR CORRECT ELEMENTS OR PARTS IN CASE THEY HAVE BEEN ERRONEOUSLY FILED

RECORD COPY AND SEARCH COPY

CHAPTER 7: THE INTERNATIONAL SEARCH PROCEDURE: PROCESSING OF THE INTERNATIONAL
APPLICATION BY THE INTERNATIONAL SEARCHING AUTHORITY

GENERAL

NUCLEOTIDE AND/OR AMINO ACID SEQUENCE LISTINGS

LIMITATIONS ON INTERNATIONAL SEARCH

UNITY OF INVENTION

TITLE AND ABSTRACT

INTERNATIONAL SEARCH REPORT

WRITTEN OPINION OF THE INTERNATIONAL SEARCHING AUTHORITY

CHAPTER 8: SUPPLEMENTARY INTERNATIONAL SEARCH

GENERAL

SUPPLEMENTARY SEARCH REQUEST

Box No. I: Identification of the International Application

Box No. II: Applicant

Box No. III: Agent or Common Representative

Box No. IV: Basis for Supplementary International Search

Box No. V: Check List

Box No. VI: Signature of Applicant, Agent or Common Representative

Notes to the Supplementary Search Request Form

Fee Calculation Sheet

FEES

PROCESSING OF THE SUPPLEMENTARY SEARCH REQUEST BY THE INTERNATIONAL BUREAU

SUPPLEMENTARY INTERNATIONAL SEARCH PROCEDURE

CHAPTER 9: INTERNATIONAL PUBLICATION, AMENDMENT OF CLAIMS, AND OTHER
PROCESSING OF THE INTERNATIONAL APPLICATION BY THE INTERNATIONAL BUREAU

GENERAL

AMENDMENT OF THE CLAIMS UNDER ARTICLE 19

INTERNATIONAL PUBLICATION

COMMUNICATION OF COPIES TO THE DESIGNATED OFFICES

CHAPTER 10: INTERNATIONAL PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION UNDER CHAPTER II OF THE PCT

GENERAL

MAKING A DEMAND FOR INTERNATIONAL PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION

TRANSLATION OF INTERNATIONAL APPLICATION FOR THE PURPOSES OF INTERNATIONAL
PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION

THE DEMAND

Box No. I: Identification of the International Application

Box No. II: Applicant(s)

Box No. III: Agent or Common Representative

Box No. IV: Basis for International Preliminary Examination (Statement
Concerning Amendments and Indication of the Language for the Purposes of
International Preliminary Examination)

Box No. V: Election of States

Box No. VI: Check List

Box No. VII: Signature of Applicant, Agent or Common Representative

Notes to the Demand Form

Fee Calculation Sheet

FEES

PROCESSING OF THE DEMAND FOR INTERNATIONAL PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION

THE INTERNATIONAL PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION

THE INTERNATIONAL PRELIMINARY REPORT ON PATENTABILITY (CHAPTER II OF THE PCT)

CHAPTER 11: MISCELLANEOUS QUESTIONS CONCERNING THE INTERNATIONAL PHASE

REPRESENTATION BY AGENTS AND COMMON REPRESENTATIVES

CORRESPONDENCE TO THE APPLICANT

CHANGES CONCERNING THE APPLICANT, INVENTOR, AGENT OR COMMON REPRESENTATIVE

DEATH OF APPLICANT OR INVENTOR

APPLICANT UNAVAILABLE OR UNWILLING TO SIGN THE INTERNATIONAL APPLICATION OR
OTHER DOCUMENTS

RECTIFICATION OF OBVIOUS MISTAKES

AMENDMENTS OF THE CLAIMS, DESCRIPTION AND DRAWINGS

WITHDRAWALS

COMPUTATION OF TIME LIMITS

IRREGULARITIES IN THE MAIL SERVICE

EXCUSE OF DELAY IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

EXTENSION OF TIME LIMITS

FILING OF LETTERS, DOCUMENTS AND PAPERS

CONFIDENTIALITY OF INTERNATIONAL APPLICATIONS

REFERENCES TO DEPOSITED BIOLOGICAL MATERIAL

REQUIREMENTS FOR SEQUENCE LISTINGS

EXTENSION OF INTERNATIONAL APPLICATIONS TO SUCCESSOR STATES OF FORMER
CONTRACTING STATES

LICENSING INDICATIONS

THIRD PARTY OBSERVATIONS

##  CHAPTER 1: THIS GUIDE AND ITS ANNEXES

INTRODUCTION

1.001

This part of the _PCT Applicant’s Guide_ (the Guide) consists of general
information on the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) intended for those
interested in filing international patent applications, in particular,
information on the “international phase” of the PCT procedure. This is
supplemented by a number of Annexes Containing more detailed information;
whenever the word “Annex” followed by a capital letter is used in the Guide,
it is a reference to an Annex. A second part follows and contains general
information on the “national phase” of the PCT procedure, namely the procedure
before the designated (or elected) Offices. A designated (or elected) Office
is the national or regional Patent Office of or acting for a State party to
the PCT (a “Contracting State”) that is designated (or elected) in an
international application. This National Phase also indicates the requirements
to be complied with before each of these Offices in their respective National
Chapters. Since 2006, the Guide is only available via the Internet at
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/guide/index.html>. An e-mail update service is
also available which provides users of the Guide with a weekly notice
informing them which Guide information has been updated that week.

1.002

In the text of the Guide, Article refers to Articles of the PCT, Rule refers
to the PCT Regulations and Section refers to the PCT Administrative
Instructions. References to a paragraph relate to the texts of either the
International or the National Phases of the Guide.

1.003

Although the information contained in this Guide is fairly comprehensive, it
should be borne in mind that it condenses and interprets rules that are
contained in longer, official texts, particularly the PCT itself and the
Regulations under the PCT, and it is those texts which apply in the case of
any inconsistency with this Guide. Consultation of those texts is
indispensable for complete information.

1.004

Since the text of the PCT and PCT Regulations is sometimes fairly complex, and
since the drafting and prosecution of patent applications is itself a complex
matter, prospective applicants, unless they are specialists in patent law
themselves, are strongly advised to obtain professional advice from patent
attorneys or patent agents, and to use the services of such attorneys or
agents.

1.005. Where can I find a copy of the PCT Regulations and other PCT
publications?

Up-to-date versions of the PCT Treaty and Regulations may be browsed or
downloaded from the PCT Resources page at:
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/docs/official-notices/officialnotices.pdf>. These
texts are also available in Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Italian,
Japanese, Portuguese, Russian and Spanish.

Printed brochures of the PCT and Regulations, in many of the above languages,
may be ordered as WIPO publication number 274 from the International Bureau at
the address given in Annex B (IB), or by e-mail from
publications.mail@wipo.int. A copy may also be downloaded, free of charge,
from the following website: <https://www.wipo.int/publications/en/index.html>.
Publication orders should also indicate the language of the required
publication. PCT users may consult published international applications on
PATENTSCOPE at: <https://www.wipo.int/patentscope/en/>. It is also recommended
that they consult the _Official Notices (PCT Gazette)_ which contain notices
and information of a general character. Accession of new Contracting States,
changes in fees and other information are promptly published therein. A
complete collection of _Official Notices (PCT Gazette)_ from 1998 to the
present is available in electronic form on the WIPO website at:
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/docs/official_notices/officialnotices.pdf>.

1.006

Up-to-date news about the PCT is available from the PCT Newsletter, a monthly
publication. In addition to matters such as adherence of further States to the
PCT and changes in requirements of Offices and Authorities, the PCT Newsletter
also includes the current list of PCT Contracting States, reports of
international meetings concerning the PCT, amendments to the PCT Regulations,
changes to PCT forms, statistics relating to the filing of international
applications, practical advice for PCT users, information about forthcoming
PCT seminars and tables of PCT fees. The PCT Newsletter is available on the
WIPO website at: <https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/newslett/>. This web page also
contains a fully searchable collection of all practical advice published since
1994, plus back issues of the PCT Newsletter which are also fully searchable
as from the January 1994 issue onwards. In addition to English, excerpts from
the PCT Newsletter are also available in Chinese
(<https://www.wipo.int/pct/zh/newslett/index.html>), Japanese
(<https://www.wipo.int/pct/ja/newslett/index.html>) and Korean
(<https://www.wipo.int/pct/ko/newslett/index.html>).

1.007

Those wishing to know the background to the PCT are advised to consult the
“Records of the Washington Diplomatic Conference on the Patent Cooperation
Treaty, 1970” which is available on the WIPO website at:
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/washington.html>.

1.008

Further useful material is contained in the Administrative Instructions under
the PCT (available at <https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/index.html>), the PCT
Receiving Office Guidelines, and the PCT International Search and Preliminary
Examination Guidelines (both available at
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/gdlines.html>). However, the Administrative
Instructions and those Guidelines are mainly addressed to the authorities
carrying out the various tasks entrusted to them by the PCT. To the extent
that they are of interest to applicants, their contents are duly reflected in
the notes to some PCT forms and in the text of this Guide.

##  CHAPTER 2: WHAT IS THE PCT?

2.001. What is the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT)?

The Patent Cooperation Treaty or PCT is a multilateral treaty that was
concluded in Washington in 1970 and entered into force in 1978. It is
administered by the International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property
Organization (WIPO), whose headquarters are in Geneva (Switzerland).

2.002. What are the advantages of using the PCT?

The PCT facilitates the obtaining of protection for inventions where such
protection is sought in any or all of the PCT Contracting States (refer to
Annex A). It provides for the filing of one patent application (“the
international application”), with effect in several States, instead of filing
several separate national and/or regional patent applications. In addition to
designations of PCT Contracting States for the purposes of obtaining national
patents and similar titles, an international application includes designations
for regional patents in respect of States party to any of the following
regional patent treaties: the Protocol on Patents and Industrial Designs
within the framework of the African Regional Intellectual Property
Organization (ARIPO) (hereinafter referred to as “the ARIPO Harare Protocol”),
the Eurasian Patent Convention, the European Patent Convention, and the
Agreement establishing the African Intellectual Property Organization (OAPI)
(hereinafter referred to as “the OAPI Agreement”). The PCT does not eliminate
the necessity of prosecuting the international application in the national
phase of processing before the national or regional Offices, but it does
facilitate such prosecution in several important respects by virtue of the
procedures carried out on all international applications during the
international phase of processing. The formalities check, the international
search and the optional supplementary international search(es) and the
likewise optional international preliminary examination carried out during the
international phase, as well as the automatic deferral of national processing
which is entailed, give the applicant more time and a better basis for
deciding whether and in which countries to further pursue the application.

##  CHAPTER 3: THE INTERNATIONAL PHASE AND THE NATIONAL PHASE OF THE PCT
PROCEDURE

3.001. What are the different phases of the PCT?

The PCT procedure consists of two main phases. It begins with the filing of an
international application and ends (in the case of a favorable outcome for the
applicant) with the grant of a number of national and/or regional patents:
hence the terms “international phase” and “national phase.” (The expression
“national phase” is used even if the Office before which it takes place is a
regional Office.) The expressions “international phase” and “national phase”
are not actually used in the PCT, but they are convenient, short expressions
which have become customary and are therefore used in this Guide.

3.002

The international phase, which is the subject of this part of the Guide,
consists of five stages. The first three occur automatically for all
international applications and the last two are optional. The first three
steps consist of the filing of the international application by the applicant
and its processing by the “receiving Office” (refer to Annex C), the
establishment of the international search report and written opinion by one of
the “International Searching Authorities” (refer to Annex D), and the
publication of the international application together with the international
search report by the International Bureau of WIPO (hereinafter referred to as
“the International Bureau”). The fourth step includes the establishment of a
supplementary international search which may be carried out by one or more of
the International Searching Authorities (other than the one that carried out
the main international search) resulting in the establishment of a
supplementary international search report (refer to Annex SISA). Hereinafter,
reference to the “(main) international search” alone does not include
reference to the “supplementary international search”, and reference to
“international search report” alone does not include reference to
“supplementary international search report”, except where otherwise indicated.
The third step includes communication of the published international
application and the international search report and, where applicable, the
supplementary international search report(s), as well as the international
preliminary report on patentability (Chapter I of the PCT), by the
International Bureau to the national (or regional) Offices from which the
applicant wishes to be granted a patent on the basis of the international
application (the so-called “designated Offices”). The communication occurs
upon request by the designated Office to the International Bureau.

3.003

The optional fifth step involves what is known as international preliminary
examination (under Chapter II of the PCT), and is concluded with the
establishment of the international preliminary report on patentability
(Chapter II of the PCT) by one of the “International Preliminary Examining
Authorities” (refer to Annex E). The international preliminary report on
patentability (Chapter II of the PCT) analyzes aspects of the general
patentability of the invention. Together with the published international
application, the international search report and any supplementary
international search report, the international preliminary report on
patentability (Chapter II of the PCT) is communicated to the national (or
regional) Offices from which the applicant wishes to be granted a patent on
the basis of the international application (the so-called “elected Offices”).
The communication occurs upon request by the elected Office to the
International Bureau. International preliminary examination is available
subject to certain conditions and qualifications being met; those are
discussed in detail in paragraph 10.004.

3.004. What is the national phase of the PCT?

On completion of the international phase, further action is required before
and in each of the national (or regional) Offices from which the applicant
wishes to be granted a patent on the basis of the international application.
In particular, the applicant has to pay to those Offices the required national
(or regional) fees, furnish them with any translations that are required and
appoint a representative (patent agent) where required. There are time limits
by which those steps must be taken if the application is to proceed in the
national phase (refer to paragraphs 4.014 to 4.016, 5.005 and 5.006 below). If
the steps are not taken within the applicable time limit, the effect of the
international application may cease in any State where the time limit has not
been met. The national (or regional) Offices then examine the application and
grant or refuse the national (or regional) patent on the basis of their
national laws. (In the PCT and in this Guide, any reference to “national law”
is also a reference to a regional treaty such as the ARIPO Harare Protocol,
the Eurasian Patent Convention, the European Patent Convention and the OAPI
Agreement – refer to paragraph 2.002.) These procedures before the national
(or regional) Offices constitute what is usually referred to as the “national
phase” of the PCT procedure and are considered in that part of this Guide.

3.005. When must I enter the national phase before a specific Office?

It is up to the applicant to decide whether and when to enter the national
phase before each national (or regional) Office. The international phase
continues, for any particular State, until entry into the national phase
before the national (or regional) Office concerned or until the expiration of
the applicable time limit for entering the national phase before that Office.
Since the national phase may be entered before different Offices at different
times, the international application may simultaneously be in the
international phase for some States and the national phase for others. Where
national phase processing or examination has begun before a particular Office,
any actions taken on the international application remaining in the
international phase have no effect on the proceedings before that Office.

##  CHAPTER 4: USEFULNESS OF THE PCT FOR APPLICANTS

4.001. What are the advantages of the PCT?

Use of the PCT saves effort - time, work - for any person or firm (“the
applicant”) seeking protection for an invention in a number of countries.

4.002

Use of the PCT also helps the applicant to make decisions about the
prosecution of the application before the various national Patent Offices in
the national phase of processing.

4.003

The saving arises primarily from the fact that, under the PCT, the applicant
files one application – the international application – in one place, in one
language and pays one initial set of fees, and that this international
application has the effect of a national or regional application, which,
without the PCT, the applicant would have to file separately for each country
or region.

4.004. What is an international search report and a written opinion?

The help to the applicant in the national phase prosecution of the application
follows from the “advice” provided in the international search report, a
report which is established for each international application, according to
high, internationally regulated standards, by one of the Patent Offices that
are highly experienced in examining patent applications and that have been
specially appointed to carry out international searches. Those Offices are
listed in Annex D (“International Searching Authorities”). Detailed advice may
also be obtained from the written opinion established by the International
Searching Authority which gives a preliminary non-binding opinion on whether
the claimed invention appears to be novel, to involve inventive step and to be
industrially applicable.

4.005. What is a supplementary international search?

If the applicant so requests (Form PCT/IB/375), a supplementary international
search may be carried out, by one or more of the participating International
Searching Authorities (refer to Annex SISA) other than the one which carried
out the main international search. The supplementary international search
report(s) (Form PCT/SISA/501), thus obtained will provide the applicant with a
more comprehensive overview of the relevant prior art and enable him/her to
better assess the chances of obtaining patent protection for his/her invention
(refer to Chapter 8).

4.006

If the applicant files a demand under Chapter II, international preliminary
examination is carried out on the basis of the international search report and
the written opinion of the International Searching Authority, and concludes
with the international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the
PCT). Offices qualified to prepare such reports are specifically appointed to
carry out international preliminary examinations and are listed in Annex E
(“International Preliminary Examining Authorities”). Note that those Offices
listed in Annex E are the same as those Offices listed in Annex D
(“International Searching Authorities”) since, in order to be appointed
International Searching Authority, an Office must also hold an appointment as
International Preliminary Examining Authority, and _vice versa_. The
additional benefit for applicants of filing a demand for international
preliminary examination is that it provides the applicant with an opportunity
to enter into a dialogue with the examiner at the International Preliminary
Examining Authority and to possibly amend the international application in
order to influence the content of the international preliminary report on
patentability (Chapter II of the PCT).

4.007

The advantages offered by the PCT are given in more detail below.

4.008. What is the advantage of filing a PCT application?

By the single act of filing an international application under the PCT, it is
possible to secure the very effect that, without the PCT, would require as
many filings of separate applications as there are countries or regions in
which the applicant seeks protection.

4.009. In which language can I file my international application?

The filing of an international application takes place in one of the languages
accepted by the Office with which the application is filed; for many
applicants that will be the language, or one of the languages, used by the
national or regional Patent Office of, or acting for, their country.

4.010. Where can I file my international application?

The international application is filed in a single place; it is generally
filed at the national Patent Office of the applicant’s country or at a
regional Patent Office acting for the applicant’s country, or it may be filed
direct with the International Bureau in its capacity as a receiving Office
under the PCT.

4.011. Are there any formal requirements for my international application?

There is a prescribed form for the international application. This form must
be accepted by all designated Offices for the purposes of the national phase,
so that there is no need to comply with a great variety of widely differing
formal requirements in the many countries in which protection may be sought.

4.012. Where can I pay the fee for my international application?

The international fees payable in respect of the filing of an international
application may be paid at one time, at one Office and in one currency. The
costs and possible complications connected with the payment, on filing, of
many fees in many countries, and generally in different currencies, are thus
avoided.

4.013. What are the advantages of the PCT system in comparison to the Paris
route?

Before the applicant goes to the effort and expense of having translations
prepared, paying the national or regional fees and appointing agents in the
various countries, his/her views are able to mature to a greater extent than
would be possible without the PCT, not only because the applicant has more
time, but also because the international search report, the written opinion of
the International Searching Authority, the supplementary international search
report(s), and the international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter
II of the PCT) constitute a solid basis on which he/she can judge the chances
of obtaining protection. Furthermore, any patents subsequently granted by the
designated or elected Offices can be relied on by the applicant to a greater
extent than would have been the case without the benefit of the international
search report, the written opinion of the International Searching Authority,
the supplementary international search report(s), and the international
preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT). Moreover, because
of the longer time the applicant has for making decisions, he/she is better
placed to assess the technical value and economic interest of patent
protection and to select the particular countries in which he/she desires to
continue seeking protection for the invention. As a result, substantial
savings can be made in both translation and filing costs for those countries
which are no longer of interest to the applicant.

4.014

If an international application is filed in a language which is not both a
language accepted by the International Searching Authority which is to carry
out the international search and a language of publication, it needs to be
translated into an appropriate language shortly after filing, but all the
translations required by the Offices of or acting for the countries in which
the applicant ultimately wishes to obtain protection need to be prepared only
much later. Instead of having to be filed within the 12-month priority period,
they are generally not required until the expiration of the time limit
referred to in paragraph 4.016.

4.015

Fees payable to national or regional Patent Offices similarly become due later
than they do without the PCT, and only in the case where the applicant decides
to go ahead with the processing of the international application at the
national or regional Patent Office. Generally, such national or regional fees
must be paid within the same time limit as referred to in paragraph 4.016.

4.016. What is the time limit for entering the national phase?

Since 1 April 2002, the applicable time limit for entering the national phase
is 30 months from the priority date (or even later in some cases) for all
Offices except those in respect of which the former 20-month time limit
remains applicable unless the applicant files a demand for international
preliminary examination before the expiration of 19 months from the priority
date, in which case the 30-month time limit (or even later in some cases) will
also apply. For regular updates on these applicable time limits, refer to the
_Official Notices (PCT Gazette)_ , the PCT Newsletter, and the relevant
National Chapters; a cumulative table is also available from WIPO’s website
at: <https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/time_limits.html>.

4.017

An international search report (and any supplementary international search
report) which is favorable from the applicant’s viewpoint strengthens his/her
position vis-à-vis the various national or regional Patent Offices, and
his/her arguments for the grant of a patent by those Offices are likely to be
more convincing.

4.018

This is even more true in the case of a favorable international preliminary
report on patentability under either Chapter I or II, which contains far more
material on which to base an opinion on the chances of obtaining patents than
does an international search report.

4.019

If the international search report and the written opinion of the
International Searching Authority are partly favorable and partly unfavorable,
the applicant can modify the claims so as to maintain only those which are
likely to result in the grant of a patent. If the international search report
and the written opinion are unfavorable, and the applicant consequently
decides not to proceed any further, he/she saves the cost of having the
application processed in the various countries. The same applies to
supplementary international search report(s).

4.020

The preceding paragraph also applies in the case of international preliminary
reports on patentability under Chapter II of the PCT.

4.021

Important other advantages resulting from use of the PCT route are referred to
in this text. They consist, among other things, in savings in the procedure
before the designated Offices (for instance, there is no need to provide each
Office with original drawings, or certified copies of the priority
application, there is a reduction in national fees in several countries and
the European Patent Office, etc.).

REGIONAL PATENTS VIA THE PCT

4.022. Can I obtain a regional patent via the PCT ?

Important additional advantages for applicants wishing to protect their
inventions in countries party both to any of the various regional patent
treaties (refer to paragraph 2.002) and to the PCT result from combined use of
the PCT system and those regional systems. Not only is the PCT fully
compatible with the regional patent systems, but there are possibilities for
advantageous combined use of both kinds of systems by applicants, irrespective
of the country in which they file. The following paragraphs deal with the
combined use of the PCT with the regional patent systems under which patents
may be obtained via the PCT, namely, the ARIPO Harare Protocol, the Eurasian
Patent Convention, the European Patent Convention and the OAPI Agreement, via
the so-called “ARIPO-PCT route,” “Eurasian-PCT route,” “Euro-PCT route” and
“OAPI-PCT route.” In the case of the European Patent Convention, it is also
possible to obtain patents through combined use of that Convention and the PCT
in the States to which a European patent may be extended or where it may be
validated – refer to paragraph 4.026.

4.023

An applicant filing a PCT application and wishing to obtain protection in
countries party to any of those regional patent treaties obtains, from the PCT
application filed, for example, with the Japan Patent Office (JPO) or with the
United States Patent and Trademark Office, the effect of a simultaneous filing
with each regional Office concerned for the purposes of obtaining a regional
patent. In such a case, before taking any action outside his/her home country,
the applicant can safely wait until the results of the PCT search procedure
(and, optionally, of the international preliminary examination) are known and
also make full use of the extended period (refer to paragraph 5.005) by the
end of which a translation of the PCT application, if it was not filed in one
of the official languages of the regional Office (refer to the various
National Chapters), must be submitted and, where required, an agent appointed
for the procedure before that Office.

4.024

An applicant may file a PCT application with his/her own national Office as
receiving Office, even at the very end of the priority year, and still obtain
an immediate automatic filing effect with each of the regional Offices
concerned. A further advantage is that, at the time of filing the PCT
application, the applicant pays only one initial set of fees. The four
regional designations which are presently possible cover more than 50 PCT
Contracting States. If, on the other hand, the applicant chooses to file
separate regional patent applications on the basis of a first application
filed with his/her own national Office, he/she will, by the end of the
priority year, have to comply with all the requirements of each of the
regional treaties as to formalities, fees and appointment of agents.

4.025. I am a national of a State party to one of the regional patent
treaties. May I file an international application to obtain both regional and
national protection?

Similar advantages are offered by use of the ARIPO-PCT, Eurasian-PCT, Euro-PCT
and OAPI-PCT routes in the reverse direction. In other words, a national of a
State party to one of the regional patent treaties or of one of the States to
which a European patent may be extended (refer to paragraph 4.026) may,
instead of filing separate patent applications with a regional Office and, for
instance, the Japan Patent Office (JPO) and the United States Patent and
Trademark Office, choose to file, on the basis of a national application or as
a first application, an international application under the PCT containing the
designation of all PCT Contracting States for the purposes of obtaining, where
applicable, both regional and national patents.

4.026. Can I validate or extend a European patent via the PCT?

A further advantage of the Euro-PCT route is the possibility of making use,
where available, of the procedure for extension or validation of European
patents. Agreements on extending or validating the protection conferred by
European patents have been concluded between the European Patent Organisation
and some States which are not party to the European Patent Convention.
Provided that the international application contains a designation for a
national patent of the State concerned and also a designation for a European
patent the applicant may make use of the Euro-PCT route with a view to
extending to or validating in that State a European patent subsequently
granted on the basis of the international application (refer to paragraph
5.054 and Annex B (EP), as well as National Chapter Summary (EP)).

##  CHAPTER 5: FILING AN INTERNATIONAL APPLICATION

GENERAL

5.001. What is an international application?

[Article 2(vii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a2.html),
[Article 3(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a3.html)  
An application is “international” when it is filed under and with reference to
the PCT. It is the first step towards obtaining a patent in or for a State
party to the PCT: “in” such a State when a national patent is desired; for
such a State when a regional patent (ARIPO, Eurasian, European or OAPI patent)
is desired.

5.002. What may be the subject of an international application?

[Article 2(i)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a2.html),  [Article
2(ii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a2.html),  [Article
3(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a3.html)  
An international application must be an application for the protection of an
invention. The PCT encompasses the filing of applications for patents for
inventions, inventors’ certificates, utility certificates, utility models, and
various kinds of patents and certificates of addition (refer to Article 2(i)).
An international application thus cannot validly be filed for certain other
forms of industrial property rights which fall outside the scope of
inventions, such as, for example, purely ornamental designs.

5.003. What are the main effects of an international application?

[Article 4(1)(ii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a4.html),
[Article 11(3)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a11.html),
[Article 64(4)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a64.html),  [Rule
4.9](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html)  
Any international application has two main effects. One of those effects,
generally speaking, is the same as that of a national (or regional)
application. It occurs on the date accorded as the international filing date
(refer to paragraph 6.005). It is produced in or for the “designated States, ”
that is, the States in which or for which the applicant wishes to obtain a
patent by filing an international application. For the prior art effect of
international applications in the United States of America, refer to National
Chapter (US).

5.004. What are “elected States”?

[Article 31(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a31.html),
[Article 31(4)(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a31.html)  
Designated States in respect of which international preliminary examination
has been demanded by the applicant are called elected States in the
terminology of the PCT.

5.005

[Article 22(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a22.html),
[Article 23(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a23.html)  
Subject to what is said in the following paragraph, the other main effect of
an international application is that, normally, no designated Office may
process or examine the international application prior to the expiration of 30
months from the priority date (for the definition of “priority date”, refer to
paragraph 5.058) and that any fees due to a designated Office and any
translation of the international application to be furnished to a designated
Office will have to be paid and furnished, respectively, only by the
expiration of that 30-month period. In respect of certain designated Offices
(currently two), the applicable time limit is the former 20-month time limit
(for Luxembourg) or 21-month time limit (for the United Republic of Tanzania),
not the 30-month time limit because, due to the incompatibility, for the time
being, of the modified PCT provision (PCT Article 22(1)) with the relevant
national law, those Offices made a declaration of incompatibility which will
remain in effect until it is withdrawn by the respective Offices. Furthermore,
certain other designated Offices have fixed time limits expiring even later
than 30 months (for more detailed information, refer to paragraph 4.016 and
the National Chapters (Summaries)). This effect of the international
application is normally referred to as the effect of “delaying” the patent
examination and granting procedure before the national (or regional) Offices.

5.006

[Article 39(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a39.html),
[Article 40(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a40.html)  
If international preliminary examination has been demanded before the
expiration of 19 months from the priority date, the delaying effect in respect
of any State whose designated Office has notified the International Bureau
that the 30-month time limit under Article 22(1), as in force from April 1,
2002, is incompatible with the national law applied by that Office, is 10
months longer, so that any fees due to an elected Office and any translation
of the international application will have to be paid and furnished,
respectively, only by the expiration of 30 months from the priority date. (For
more detailed information refer to the National Phase and National Chapters.
Later time limits apply in some Offices.)

5.007. Can I claim priority from an international filing date?

[Article 8](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a8.html),  [Article
11(4)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a11.html)  
An international application which has been accorded an international filing
date is the equivalent of a “regular national filing” within the meaning of
the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property and,
consequently, may be invoked as the basis of a priority claim in a national,
regional or other international application filed subsequently within the time
limit and subject to the conditions provided for in that Convention.

5.008. Where should an international application be filed?

[Article 10](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a10.html),  [Rule
19.1(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r19.html) [Rule
19.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r19.html)  
Annexes B indicate, for each Contracting State, the authorities with which its
nationals and residents may, as applicants, file international applications.
In the terminology of the PCT, these authorities are called “receiving
Offices” (because they receive international applications). They are listed
with their full names and addresses, their telephone, facsimile numbers and,
where available, their e-mail and/or Internet addresses, in Annexes B, and the
requirements of each receiving Office are listed in Annex C. Where there are
several applicants who are not all nationals and/or residents of the same
Contracting State, any receiving Office of or acting for a Contracting State
of which at least one of the applicants is a resident or national is competent
to receive an international application filed by those applicants.
Alternatively, at the applicant’s option, the international application may be
filed with the International Bureau as receiving Office, regardless of the
Contracting State of which the applicant is a resident or national. If there
are two or more applicants, the international application may be filed with
the International Bureau as receiving Office if at least one of the applicants
is a resident or national of a Contracting State. Residents or nationals of
States which are party to the PCT and also to the ARIPO Harare Protocol, to
the Eurasian Patent Convention, to the European Patent Convention, or to the
OAPI Agreement generally also have the option of filing an international
application with the ARIPO Office, the Eurasian Patent Office, the European
Patent Office, or the OAPI Office, respectively. Compliance with any national
security prescriptions applicable under national law is the applicant’s
responsibility. As to measures which may be applied by receiving Offices in
connection with such prescriptions, refer to paragraph 6.010.

5.009. Can I chose between different receiving Offices to file my
international application?

[Article 31(2)(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a31.html),
[Rule 18.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r18.html) [Rule
54](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r54.html)  
Applicants may have a choice between several receiving Offices, for example,
where there are two or more applicants whose States of nationality and
residence include more than one Contracting State, or where a sole applicant
has nationality and/or residence in more than one Contracting State.

5.010. What are the elements of an international application?

[Article 3(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a3.html),  [Article
7](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a7.html)  
Any international application must contain the following elements: request,
description, claim or claims, one or more drawings (where drawings are
necessary for the understanding of the invention), and abstract. Detailed
information on each is given below.

5.011. What is the order of the elements of the international application?

[Section 207(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s207.html)  
The elements of the international application must be arranged in the
following order: request, description, claim(s), abstract, drawing(s) (if
any). Any sequence listing part of the description must be provided as a
separate electronic file (XML).

5.012. How must the sheets of an international application be numbered?

[Rule 11.7(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html) [Section
207(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s207.html)  
All the sheets constituting the international application must be numbered in
consecutive Arabic numerals with three series of numbers: the first applying
to the request, the second applying to the part consisting of the description,
the claim(s) and the abstract (refer to paragraph 5.106), and the third
applying to the drawings (refer to paragraph 5.140).

5.013. What language must be used for an international application?

[Article 3(4)(i)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a3.html), [Rule
12.1(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r12.html) [Rule
12.1(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r12.html) [Rule
12.1(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r12.html) [Rule
12.4(a-_bis_),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r12.html) [Rule
48.3(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r48.html)  
The language in which an international application must be filed depends on
the receiving Office. Some receiving Offices allow the applicant to choose
between two or more languages. For any sequence listing part of the
description, the language requirements apply only to the language-dependent
free text in the sequence listing. The language or languages which may be used
for filing an international application, including the language-dependent free
text in any sequence listing, with a given receiving Office are indicated in
Annex C. If the international application is filed in a language other than
Arabic, Chinese, English, French, German, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese,
Russian or Spanish (that is, the languages in which international applications
may be published – refer to paragraphs 9.017 to 9.020), or if the language in
which the international application is filed is not accepted by the
International Searching Authority which is to carry out the international
search (refer to paragraph 7.002 and Annex D), a translation of the
international application will need to be furnished for the purposes of
international search and/or international publication. A translation may also
be required for the purposes of the supplementary international search if
neither the language in which the international application is filed or
published nor that in which the translation is furnished for the purposes of
the main international search is accepted by the Authority which is to carry
out the supplementary international search (refer to Annex SISA). Furthermore,
a translation may also be required for the purposes of the international
preliminary examination if the language in which the international application
is filed or published is not accepted by the International Preliminary
Examining Authority which is to carry out the international preliminary
examination (refer to Annex E). For any sequence listing part of the
description, the translation requirements apply only to the language-dependent
free text in the sequence listing. The requirements in relation to languages
and the furnishing of translations are explained in greater detail in
paragraphs 6.013 to 6.020, 8.012, 9.017 to 9.019 and 10.011. Those
requirements operate, in most cases, in such a way that only one translation
would need to be furnished for the purposes of the international phase of
processing. All elements of the international application must normally be in
the same language, with the exception of the language-dependent free text in a
sequence listing if permitted by the receiving Office. However, the request
must be in a language of publication which the receiving Office accepts for
that purpose (refer to Annex C), and the text matter of the drawings (if any)
and the abstract may be in the language in which the international application
is to be published (refer to paragraphs 6.018 and 6.019).

5.014

[Rule 19.4(a)(ii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r19.html)  
For the case where an international application is not filed in a language
accepted by the receiving Office with which it is filed, refer to paragraph
6.034.

THE REQUEST

5.015. What is the form of the request?

[Rule 3.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r3.html) [Rule
3.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r3.html) [Rule
3.4,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r3.html) [Rule
4](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html),  [Rule 89
_ter_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r89ter.html),  [Section
102](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s102.html)  
Where the international application is filed on paper, the request must be
made on a printed form (Form PCT/RO/101) to be filled in with the required
indications or be presented as a computer print-out complying with the
Administrative Instructions. A filled-in sample and a blank copy of the Form
PCT/RO/101 are available from the Internet website address indicated below.
Any prospective applicant may also obtain copies of the printed request Form
PCT/RO/101, free of charge, from the receiving Office with which he/she plans
to file an international application or from the International Bureau. To
facilitate preparation of the request, the International Bureau has prepared
downloadable PDF (portable document format) versions on its website. These may
be downloaded from <https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/forms/> and completed using a
computer or printed out and filled in using a typewriter. The request, and
instructions on how to complete the editable version, is also available from
that site.

5.016. Which indications must the request contain?

[Article 4(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a4.html),  [Article
43](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a43.html),  [Article
44](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a44.html),  [Article
45](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a45.html),  [Rule
3](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r3.html),  [Rule
4.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule
4.9(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule
4.10,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule
4.11,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule 4.14 _bis_
,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule
4.15](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html)  
The request contains a petition for the international application to be
processed according to the PCT and must also contain certain indications. It
must contain the title of the invention. It must identify the applicant,
(normally) the inventor, and the agent (if any). The filing of a request
constitutes the designation of all Contracting States bound by the PCT on the
international filing date, for the grant of every kind of protection available
and for the grant of both regional and national patents. The request should
also contain, where applicable, a priority claim, an indication of the
applicant’s choice of competent International Searching Authority and a
reference to any relevant earlier international, international-type or other
search. The request must be signed. Details for the filling in of the request
form are given below in respect of each Box of that form. As to the language
of the request, refer to paragraph 5.013.

5.017. Must I indicate a file reference?

[Section 109](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s109.html)  
It is recommended that the applicant indicate his/her file reference, if any,
not exceeding 25 characters in length, in the box provided for this purpose on
the first sheet of the request form. The file reference may be composed either
of letters of the Latin alphabet or Arabic numerals, or both. The hyphen
character (“-“) may be used as a separator between alphanumeric characters.
The receiving Office, International Bureau, International Searching Authority
and International Preliminary Examining Authority will use the file reference
in correspondence with the applicant (refer to also to paragraphs 5.105,
10.015 and 11.071 as to the indication of file references on other elements
of, or papers relating to, the international application).

5.018. Are there any physical requirements for the requests?

[Rule 11.9(d)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html)  
Physical Requirements. Any text matter in the request must be in characters
the capital letters of which are not less than 0.21 cm high.

Box No. I: Title of Invention

5.019. What are the requirements with respect to the title of the invention?

[Rule 4.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule
5.1(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r5.html)  
The title of the invention must be short (preferably two to seven words, when
in English or translated into English) and precise. The same title must be
given by the applicant in Box No. I of the request and at the beginning of the
description (refer to paragraph 5.094).

Boxes Nos. II and III: Applicants; Inventors

5.020. Who may file an international application?

[Article 9(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a9.html),  [Article
9(3)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a9.html),  [Rule
18.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r18.html) [Rule
18.3](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r18.html)  
Any resident or national of a Contracting State may file an international
application. Where there are two or more applicants, at least one of them must
be a national or a resident of a Contracting State. The Contracting States are
listed in Annex A. As to questions of residence and nationality, refer to
paragraph 5.023.

5.021. [Deleted]

5.022. May I indicate different applicants for the various designated States?

[Article 9(3)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a9.html),  [Section
203(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s203.html)  
In any international application, different applicants may be indicated for
the various designated States. Note, however, that where more than one type of
protection is available for a Contracting State (refer to paragraph 5.055 and
Annex B), different applicants may not be indicated for different types of
protection, furthermore for the national and regional designation of a State,
the same applicant or applicants must be indicated.

5.023. How are questions of residence and nationality determined?

[Rule 18.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r18.html)  
The question whether an applicant is a resident or national of a Contracting
State depends on the national law of that State and is decided by the
receiving Office. In any case, however, possession of a real and effective
industrial or commercial establishment in a Contracting State is considered
residence in that State, and a legal entity constituted according to the
national law of a Contracting State is considered a national of that State.
Where a question of the applicant’s residence or nationality arises in
connection with an international application filed with the International
Bureau as receiving Office, the International Bureau will request the national
Office of, or acting for, the Contracting State concerned to decide the
question and will inform the applicant of such request. The applicant has the
opportunity to submit arguments relating to the issue of residence or
nationality directly to that national Office, which will decide the question
promptly.

5.024. How must the applicant be identified?

[Rule 4.5](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html)  
The applicant must be identified by the indication of his/her name and address
and by marking next to that indication, the check-box “This person is also
inventor” in Box No. II, or “applicant and inventor” in Box No. III, where the
applicant is also the inventor or one of the inventors, or the check-box
“applicant only” where the applicant is not also the inventor or one of the
inventors. Where the applicant is a corporation or other legal entity (that
is, not a natural person), the check-box “applicant only” must be marked.
Where the applicant is registered with the receiving Office, the number or
other indication under which the applicant is so registered may also be
indicated in Boxes No. II or III. The applicant’s nationality and residence
must also be indicated (refer to paragraph 5.031). For the identification of
the inventor, refer to paragraph 5.035. For later changes in the person, name
and address of the applicant, refer to paragraphs 11.018 to 11.022.

5.025. How must names be indicated in the request?

[Rule 4.4(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule
4.19(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html)  
The names of natural persons must be indicated by the family name followed by
the given name(s). Academic degrees or titles or other indications which are
not part of the person’s name must be omitted. The family name should
preferably be written in capital letters (refer to filled-in sample of the
request form at the address indicated in paragraph 5.015).

5.026

[Rule 4.4(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html)  
The name of a legal entity must be indicated by its full official designation
(preferably in capital letters).

5.027. How must addresses be indicated in the request?

[Rule 4.4(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html)  
Addresses must be indicated in such a way as to satisfy the requirements for
prompt postal delivery at the address indicated and must consist of all the
relevant administrative units up to and including the house number (if any).
The address must also include the country.

5.028. When is the indication of a telephone number, a facsimile number or an
e-mail address recommended?

[Rule 4.4(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html)  
It is recommended that the telephone number, facsimile number and e-mail
address of the applicant, named first in the request, be given, if no agent or
common representative is indicated in Box No. IV (refer to paragraphs 5.041 to
5.051). In order to allow rapid and safe receipt of notifications from
Offices, it is strongly recommended that an e-mail address is provided to
receive notifications.

5.029. Does the receiving Office or other PCT Authorities send notifications
by e-mail?

If an e-mail address is indicated in Box No. II of the request form, the
receiving Office, the International Searching Authority (also in its capacity
as Authority specified for supplementary search), if they provide such a
service, and the International Bureau will send notifications in respect of
the international application to the applicant by e-mail, thus avoiding
processing or postal delays. Note that, in this case, no paper notifications
will usually be sent by postal mail, unless the relevant Office is willing to
additionally send such paper notifications. Details of which Authorities will
send notifications by e-mail are included in Annex B. If no e-mail address is
provided, or if the applicant chooses to receive notifications exclusively by
postal mail, by marking the corresponding check-box in Box No. II, or in the
cases where the receiving Office or the International Searching Authority
(also in its capacity as Authority specified for supplementary search), does
not provide for sending notifications by e-mail, notifications will be sent to
the given mailing address exclusively by postal mail. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to keep any e-mail address details up-to-date and to ensure
that incoming e-mails are not blocked, for any reason, on the recipient’s
side. Changes to the e-mail address indicated in the request should be
requested to be recorded, preferably directly at the International Bureau,
under Rule 92 _bis_ (refer to paragraphs 11.018 to 11.022).

5.030. May a special address be given for the sending of correspondence?

[Rule 4.4(d)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html)  
Only one address may be indicated for each applicant in Box No. II or III.
However, where no agent, or common representative, is indicated in Box No. IV
of the request, a special address for correspondence may be indicated in that
Box. Where an applicant is indicated in Box No. IV as common representative,
an address for correspondence may be indicated in that Box (refer to
paragraphs 5.047 and 5.051) other than the address given for that applicant in
Box No. II or III.

5.031. Why and how must the nationality and residence of the applicant be
indicated in the request?

[Article 9(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a9.html),  [Rule
18](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r18.html),  [Rule
19](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r19.html)  
This information is needed to determine whether the applicant is entitled to
file an international application and also to determine the competence of the
receiving Office. It must be provided by an indication of the names of the
country of which the applicant is a national and of the country of which
he/she is a resident. Where the country of residence is not indicated
specifically but a country is indicated in the address, it will be assumed
that the country of residence is the country indicated in the address. For the
procedure where an international application is filed with a “non-competent”
receiving Office, refer to paragraph 6.035. For the manner of indicating names
of countries, refer to paragraph 5.033.

5.032. Must the indications in respect of applicants be provided for all
applicants?

[Rule 26.2 _bis_(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26.html)  
If there is more than one applicant, it is advisable that the indications
outlined in paragraphs 5.024 to 5.031 are provided in respect of all
applicants. However, if the indication of the address, nationality and
residence has been provided in respect of at least one applicant who is
entitled to file the international application with the receiving Office, the
receiving Office will not invite the applicant to furnish the missing
indications in respect of any other applicant.

5.033. How must the names of States be indicated?

[Section 115](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s115.html)  
The name of any State may be indicated either by the full name of the State or
by a short title or two-letter code or any combination thereof. This principle
applies for the indication of the names of States in all Boxes of the request
where such names must be indicated. Annex K contains a comprehensive list of
the short names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating countries,
territories and intergovernmental organizations (and their Offices) in
documents relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as
set out in WIPO Standard ST.3, which is published in the WIPO Handbook on
Industrial Property Information and Documentation and available on the
Internet site at <https://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf>.

5.034. Which of several applicants should be named first?

It is recommended that the applicant who will represent all the applicants and
to whom notifications are to be sent be named first, since he will be
considered to be the common representative of all the applicants if no common
agent or common representative is appointed and if that applicant is entitled
to file an international application with the receiving Office (refer to
paragraph 5.048). However, if a common agent representing all applicants or a
common representative is indicated in Box No. IV of the request, notices will
be sent to that common agent or common representative. (Also refer to
paragraphs 11.015 to 11.017.)

5.035. When and how must the inventor be identified?

[Article 4(1)(v)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a4.html),
[Article 4(4)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a4.html),  [Rule
4.1(a)(iv),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule
4.6](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html)  
Where the person identified in Box No. II as applicant is also the inventor,
it is sufficient to mark the check-box "This person is also inventor." No
repetition of the name and address of the inventor is required in Box No. III.
Where the inventor is identified in Box No. III, the check-box "applicant and
inventor" must be marked if the inventor is also applicant; the check-box
"inventor only" must be marked if the inventor is not also applicant. Where
the inventor is not the same for all designated States, refer to paragraph
5.038. Where the inventor is deceased, refer to paragraphs 11.023 to 11.026.

5.036. When must I mark the check-box “inventor only” in the request form?

[Article 4(4)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a4.html),  [Rule
4.1(c)(i)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html)  
Where the inventor is not also an applicant, the check-box “inventor only”
must be marked and his/her name and address must be indicated in one of the
sub-boxes of Box No. III. The name and address of the inventor may be omitted
from the request where the national law of none of the designated States
requires that the name of the inventor be furnished at the time of filing a
national application. Annexes B indicate what the requirements are for each
Contracting State or intergovernmental organization. However, unless special
reasons prevent the indication of the name and address of the inventor, it is
recommended that it always be included in the request since such information
is generally required in the national phase.

5.037. Must I indicate the inventor’s name and address in the request form?

[Rule 4.4](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html)  
As regards the indication of the name and address of the inventor, what is
said in this respect for the applicant, in paragraphs 5.025 and 5.027, also
applies. An indication of the country of which the inventor is a national or
resident is not required unless the inventor is also applicant. For later
changes in the person, name or address of the inventor, refer to paragraphs
11.018 and 11.020.

5.038. What must be done if the inventors are not the same for all designated
States?

[Rule 4.6(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html)  
The PCT permits different inventors to be indicated for different designated
States where, in this respect, the requirements of the national laws of the
designated States are not the same. For the manner of indicating for which
designated States the person named is the inventor, refer to item 1(iii) of
the Supplemental Box of the request form (refer to filled-in sample of the
request form at the address indicated in paragraph 5.015). Where, and this is
the usual case, all the inventors are the same for all designated States, no
special indication in the Supplemental Box is required.

5.039. How, in the case of several applicants, are the designated States for
which they are applicants to be identified?

Details concerning the designation of States in general are given in
paragraphs 5.052 to 5.054 below. At the bottom of Box No. II and of each sub-
box of Box No. III, there are two check-boxes (refer to filled-in sample of
the request form at the address indicated in paragraph 5.015). One (but only
one) of those check-boxes must be marked for the applicant identified in Box
No. II and for each further applicant, if any. Neither should be marked if the
person identified in any of the sub-boxes of Box No. III is "inventor only."
An explanation of the two check-boxes is given below, separately for Box No.
II and Box No. III.

Box No. II:

“⬜ all designated States”

This check-box must be marked where the person identified in Box No. II is and
qualifies as applicant for all designated States.

“⬜ the States indicated in the Supplemental Box”

This check-box must be marked only in special cases where the applicant is not
an applicant for all designated States: Where, for example, each of three
applicants is applicant for different States, the indication of the States for
which the person identified in Box No. II is applicant must be made in the
Supplemental Box of the request form (refer to the explanation given below in
relation to the sub-boxes of Box No. III for the other two applicants in such
a case). The manner in which the Supplemental Box is to be used is explained
in detail in item 1(ii) of the Supplemental Box itself (refer to filled-in
sample of the request form at the address indicated in paragraph 5.015)

Box No. III:

“⬜ all designated States”

This check-box must be marked where the person identified in the sub-box as
"applicant and inventor" or as "applicant only" is and qualifies as applicant
for all designated States.

“⬜ the States indicated in the Supplemental Box”

This check-box must be marked only in special cases where the applicant is not
an applicant for all designated States. Where, for example, each of three
applicants is applicant for different States, the indication of the States for
which each of the two further applicants identified in a sub-box of Box No.
III as "applicant and inventor" or "applicant only" must be made in the
Supplemental Box of the request form (refer to the explanation given above in
relation to the sub-boxes of Box No. II for the first applicant). The manner
in which the Supplemental Box is to be used is explained in detail in item
1(ii) of the Supplemental Box itself (refer to filled-in sample of the request
form at the address indicated in paragraph 5.015).

5.040. [Deleted]

Box No. IV: Agent or Common Representative

5.041. Does the applicant have to be represented by an agent before the
receiving Office, the International Bureau and other International Authorities
under the PCT?

[Article 27(7)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a27.html),
[Article 49](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a49.html),  [Rule
2.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r2.html) [Rule
90.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html)  
Annex C indicates, for each receiving Office, whether the applicant has to be
represented by an agent. As already stated (refer to paragraph 1.004), in view
of the importance of careful preparation of the international application and
of its proper processing, it is in any case highly advisable for applicants to
use the services of a professional patent attorney or patent agent.

5.042. Who may be appointed to act as an agent?

[Article 49](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a49.html),  [Rule 83.1
_bis_ ,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r83.html) [Section
106](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s106.html)  
Any person who can act as an agent before the Office which acts as receiving
Office (refer to Annex C) may be appointed as an agent for any international
application filed with that Office. Where the international application is
filed with the International Bureau as receiving Office, any person who has
the right to practice before the national (or regional) Office of, or acting
for, a Contracting State of which the applicant (or, if there are two or more
applicants, any of the applicants) is a resident or national may be appointed
as agent (refer to Annex C). An appointed agent who has the right to represent
the applicant before the receiving Office is automatically also entitled to
act before the International Bureau, the International Searching Authority and
the International Preliminary Examining Authority.

5.043. How is an agent to be appointed?

[Article 4(1)(iii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a4.html),
[Rule 4.1(a)(iii),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule
4.7,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule
90.3](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html)  
Subject to paragraph 5.044 an agent may be appointed by designation in Box No.
IV of the request (refer to filled-in sample of the request form at the
address indicated in paragraph 5.015) if the international application is
signed by the applicant (also refer to paragraphs 5.088 and 5.089). Otherwise
the appointment of the agent must be in a separate document (“power of
attorney”) signed by the applicant. The indication in Box No. IV of the
request or in the power of attorney must contain the name and address of the
agent in the manner indicated in paragraphs 5.025 to 5.028. It is recommended
that the agent’s telephone number facsimile number and/or e-mail address also
be indicated. In order to allow rapid and safe receipt of notifications from
Offices, it is strongly recommended that an e-mail address is provided to
receive notifications. Where the agent is registered with the receiving
Office, the number or other indication under which the agent is so registered
may also be indicated. Where there are several applicants, an agent
representing all of them may be appointed by designation in the request or by
a separate power of attorney or by a combination of both methods, provided
that all the applicants have signed either the request or a separate power of
attorney. Model powers of attorney are available in editable PDF format on the
WIPO website at: <https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/forms/pa/index.html>. The
separate power of attorney must be submitted to the receiving Office or to the
International Bureau or, if the appointment was made specifically for the
purposes of the procedure before the International Searching Authority or
International Preliminary Examining Authority, to the Authority concerned
(refer to paragraph 5.045). Where a general power of attorney authorizes an
agent to represent the applicant before the Office which acts as receiving
Office, and where that general power includes the filing of international
applications, a copy of the general power of attorney originally submitted to
the receiving Office must accompany any international application in relation
to which the appointment made in it is to be exercised unless this requirement
has been waived by the receiving Office concerned (refer to paragraph 5.044),
and reference must be made to that copy in Box No. IX of the request. It is to
be noted that general powers of attorney must be deposited with the receiving
Office (not with the International Bureau, except where the international
application is filed with the International Bureau as receiving Office) or, if
the appointment was made specifically for the purposes of the procedure before
the International Searching Authority or International Preliminary Examining
Authority, with the Authority concerned (refer to paragraph 5.045).

5.044. Is it always necessary to submit a power of attorney or a copy of my
general power of attorney with my international application?

[Rule 90.4(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html) [Rule
90.4(e),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html) [Rule
90.5(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html) [Rule
90.5(d)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html)  
Any receiving Office, International Searching Authority, International
Preliminary Examining Authority or the International Bureau may waive the
requirement that a separate power of attorney be submitted to it. Any
receiving Office, International Searching Authority, or International
Preliminary Examining Authority may waive the requirement that a copy of a
general power of attorney is attached to the request, the demand or a separate
notice. The receiving Office or Authority may waive these requirements in
general or only for certain cases. In cases where either waiver is applicable,
no separate power of attorney or copy of a general power of attorney needs to
be furnished by the applicant. Any such waiver and any conditions relating
thereto are published in the _Official Notices (PCT Gazette)_ (also refer to
Annexes C, D and E). Please note that a separate power of attorney or a copy
of a general power of attorney must, in any event, still be furnished for any
case of withdrawal, even if the requirement has been waived for other cases.
Any waiver made by a receiving Office only applies in respect of that Office
but not necessarily in respect of other Authorities involved in the PCT
procedure. Regarding signature requirements, refer to paragraphs 5.088 to
5.091; for special provisions regarding withdrawals, refer to paragraphs
11.048 to 11.061.

5.045. May I appoint a new agent or additional agents after having filed the
international application?

[Rule 90.1(d)(ii),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html) [Rule
90.6(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html)  
Further agents may be appointed at any time to represent the applicant either
generally or specifically before the International Searching Authority or the
International Preliminary Examining Authority, and an agent appointed for
general purposes, unless otherwise indicated in the document appointing that
agent, may appoint sub-agents to represent the applicant. The appointment of a
new agent is treated as revocation of any former appointment of agents, unless
otherwise indicated in the power of attorney appointing the new agent.

5.046

[Article 27(7)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a27.html),  [Rule
4.7,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule
90.3](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html)  
If representation by an agent before the receiving Office is required (refer
to paragraph 5.041), it is advisable that the agent be appointed by the time
the international application is filed to ensure that the international
application will be accepted for processing by the receiving Office. The
practice of the receiving Office with regard to enforcing the requirement that
an agent be appointed is, generally the same as that observed by it in the
case of national (or regional) applications. If the appointment of an agent is
not obligatory, an appointment may be made either at the time of filing the
international application or later.

5.047. Is the person who signs the request for a corporate applicant regarded
as an agent?

The answer depends on the nature of the authorization to act for the corporate
applicant - that is, on whether the person signs on behalf of the corporate
applicant or as an appointed agent. If the name of that person is indicated in
Box No. IV and the check-box "agent" is marked, the person will be regarded as
an agent and a power of attorney may be required. If the corporate applicant
is indicated in that Box and the check-box "common representative" is marked,
the person who signs will not be regarded as an agent. The mere fact that a
person is indicated as part of the address for correspondence to the corporate
applicant as common representative (refer to paragraph 5.051) does not mean
that the person will be regarded as an agent.

5.048. Can one of several applicants represent all of them as a common
representative?

[Rule 2.2 _bis_ ,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r2.html) [Rule
90.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html)  
If a common agent is not appointed by all the applicants, one of the
applicants may be appointed by the other applicants as the common
representative of all the applicants (refer to paragraph 11.005). If neither a
common agent nor a common representative is appointed, the first-named
applicant who has a right to file an international application with the
receiving Office concerned is automatically considered to be the deemed common
representative of all the applicants (refer to paragraph 11.006).

5.049

A more detailed explanation of the provisions relating to agents and common
representatives appears in paragraphs 11.001 to 11.014.

5.050. Will I receive notifications by e-mail?

If an e-mail address is indicated, in Box No. IV of the request form, the
receiving Office, the International Searching Authority (also in its capacity
as Authority specified for supplementary search), if they provide such a
service, and the International Bureau will send notifications in respect of
the international application to the agent or common representative at the
indicated e-mail address, thus avoiding processing or postal delays. Note
that, in this case, no paper notifications will usually be sent by postal
mail, unless the relevant Office is willing to additionally send such paper
notifications. If no e-mail address is provided, or if the agent or common
representative chooses to receive notifications exclusively by postal mail, by
marking the corresponding check-box in Box No. IV, or in the cases where the
receiving Office or the International Searching Authority (also in its
capacity as Authority specified for supplementary search), does not provide
for sending notifications by e-mail, notifications will be sent to the given
mailing address exclusively by postal mail. Where an e-mail address has been
provided both in respect of the applicant and in respect of an agent or common
representative, e-mail notifications will only be sent to the appointed agent
or common representative (also refer to paragraph 5.029).

5.051. When and how may a special address for correspondence be given?

[Rule 4.4(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Section
108](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s108.html)  
Correspondence is sent to the appointed agent or common representative, if
any. Where no agent or common representative is appointed, any correspondence
will be sent to the address, indicated in Box No. II or III, of the applicant
(if only one person is named as applicant) or of the applicant who is
considered to be the common representative (if there are two or more persons
named as applicants) (refer to paragraphs 5.048 and 11.006). However, if the
applicant wishes correspondence to be sent to a different address, in such a
case, that address must be indicated in Box No. IV instead of the indication
of an agent or common representative. In this case, and only in this case, the
last check-box of Box No. IV must be marked (that is, the last check-box must
not be marked if either of the check-boxes "agent" or "common representative"
in Box No. IV has been marked).

Box No. V: Designation of States

5.052. What is the designation of States?

[Article 4(1)(ii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a4.html),
[Article 11(1)(iii)(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a11.html),
[Rule 4.9(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html)  
The designation of States is the indication of Contracting States in or for
which the applicant may seek protection for his invention. For international
applications filed after 1 January 2004, the filing of the request
automatically constitutes:

(i) the designation of all Contracting States that are bound by the Treaty on
the international filing date;

(ii) an indication that the international application is, in respect of each
designated State to which Article 43 or 44 applies, for the grant of every
kind of protection which is available by way of the designation of that State;
and

(iii) an indication that the international application is, in respect of each
designated State to which Article 45(1) applies, for the grant of a regional
patent and also, unless Article 45(2) applies, a national patent.

This is also valid where the applicant does not use the request Form
PCT/RO/101 issued on 1 January 2004, or thereafter, or where the international
filing date is changed to a date either on, or after, 1 January 2004.

5.053. Can any States be excluded from the automatic and all-inclusive
designation of PCT Contracting States?

[Rule 4.9(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html)  
As an exception to the automatic and all-inclusive designation of Contracting
States, Germany, Japan and the Republic of Korea may be excluded from being
designated. The reason for this exception is that these States have notified
the International Bureau that the national law applied by their designated
Offices contains provisions to the effect that the filing of an international
application which contains the designation of that State and which claims the
priority of an earlier national application having effect in the same State,
has the result that the earlier national application ceases to have effect.
Check-boxes can therefore be marked when an applicant wants to avoid undesired
loss of the national priority application. Further details relating to this
issue, and particular conditions which may apply, are explained in Annex B in
respect of these States.

5.054. Is the procedure for extending or validating a European patent to or in
a country having an Extension or Validation Agreement with the European Patent
Organisation available through the filing of an international application?

A European patent granted on an international application may, if the
necessary conditions are met, be extended to or validated in a State having an
Extension or Validation Agreement to that effect with the European Patent
Organisation. The procedure is available through the filing of an
international application as the filing of the request constitutes the
designation of all States, including the designation of the European Patent
Office and the designation for a national patent of all States having
concluded an Extension or Validation Agreement, and which are also PCT
Contracting States. Annex B (EP) contains information as to the States to
which European patents may be so extended. Details of the applicable
procedure, including the steps to be taken on entering the national phase and
fees payable, have been published in the Official Journal of the European
Patent Office (No. 1-2/1994, pages 75 to 88, No. 11/1997, pages 538 to 542 and
2/2015, A18-A20); also refer to the National Chapter Summary (EP).

5.055. Is it possible to choose a kind of protection other than a patent, and
if so how is it done?

[Article 4(1)(ii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a4.html),
[Article 4(3)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a4.html),  [Article
43](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a43.html),  [Article
44](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a44.html),  [Rule
4.1(b)(iii),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule
4.11,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule 49
_bis_.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49bis.html)  
As indicated in paragraph 5.052, the filing of the request constitutes the
indication that the international application is, in respect of each
designated State to which Article 43 or 44 applies, for the grant of every
kind of protection which is available by way of the designation of that State.
Examples of such kinds of protection are an inventor’s certificate, a utility
certificate, a utility model, a “petty patent”, a patent of addition, a
certificate of addition or an inventor’s certificate of addition. It is not
possible, during the international phase, to indicate the wish to obtain a
certain kind of protection for a particular designated Office. Any further
choice of the kind of protection sought can only be made at the time of
national phase entry before the respective designated Offices. Please note,
however, that it is possible to withdraw a certain type of protection in
respect of the designation of a State. Annexes B indicate, for each
Contracting State, the kinds of protection available.

5.056. Is it necessary to include any parent information in the international
application?

Where, when entering the national phase, a title (patent, certificate,
inventor’s certificate) of addition is sought, or where the applicant wishes
the international application to be treated as an application for a
continuation or a continuation-in-part, the applicant may indicate this
information and the parent application or grant following the name of the
designated State in the “Supplemental Box” (refer to item 2 or 3 of that
Supplemental Box).

5.056A. Is it possible to correct or add any indication concerning reference
to continuation or continuation-in-part, parent application or grant made in
the request form?

[Rule 26 _quater_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26quater.html),
[Section 317 _bis_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s317bis.html),
[Section 419 _bis_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s419bis.html)  
The applicant may correct or add to the request any indication referred to in
Rule 4.11 by a notice submitted to the International Bureau within a time
limit of 16 months from the priority date, provided that any notice which is
received by the International Bureau after the expiration of that time limit
shall be considered to have been received on the last day of that time limit
if the notice reaches the International Bureau before the technical
preparations for international publication have been completed. The
International Bureau will notify the applicant of any indication corrected or
added under Rule 26 _quater_.1. If a notice under Rule 26 _quater_.1 is
submitted by the applicant to the receiving Office, that Office will mark the
date of receipt on the notice and transmit it promptly to the International
Bureau. The notice shall then be considered to have been received by the
International Bureau on the date marked. Where any correction or addition of
an indication referred to in Rule 4.11 is not timely received, the
International Bureau will inform the applicant that such an indication or
correction should be submitted directly to the designated Office or Offices
concerned.

Box No. VI: Priority Claim and Restoration of the Right of Priority

5.057. How may the priority of an earlier application be claimed?

[Article 8(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a8.html),  [Rule
4.1(b)(i),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule
4.10](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html)  
Any international application may contain a declaration claiming the priority
of one or more earlier applications filed in or for any country party to the
Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property or in or for a
member of the World Trade Organization (WTO) that is not party to that
Convention (refer to <https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/paris_wto_pct.html>). Note
that where priority is claimed of an earlier filing in or for a WTO member
which is not party to the Paris Convention, a PCT Contracting State that is
not a Member of the WTO is not required to recognize the effects of such a
priority claim. An earlier regional (ARIPO, Eurasian, European, OAPI or any
other similar regional organization providing for the grant of regional
patents and where at least one of the countries party to that regional patent
treaty is party also to the Paris Convention or the WTO) application or an
earlier international application can also serve as a basis for a priority
claim. Any priority claim must be made in the request. The priority claim must
contain the necessary indications which allow the earlier application to be
uniquely identified. If the earlier application was a national application, it
must indicate the country in which it was filed, the date on which it was
filed and the number under which it was filed. Where the earlier application
was a regional application, the priority claim must indicate the Office with
which it was filed; only where not all countries party to the regional patent
treaty under which the earlier application was filed are also party to the
Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property (the Paris
Convention) or are also members of the WTO must the priority claim indicate at
least one country party to the Paris Convention or at least one member of the
WTO for which that earlier regional application was filed. Where the earlier
application was an international application, the priority claim must indicate
the receiving Office with which it was filed. The two-letter code (refer to
Annex K and paragraph 5.033) may be used for the indication of the country or,
where applicable, for the Office of filing. Subject to certain conditions,
priority claims may be corrected and added, after the international
application has been filed, by a notice submitted to the receiving Office or
to the International Bureau (refer to paragraphs 6.038 to 6.044).

5.058. What does “priority date” mean?

[Article 2(xi)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a2.html)  
Where the international application contains a priority claim, “priority date”
means the filing date of the application whose priority is claimed. Where the
international application does not contain such a claim, “priority date” means
the filing date of the international application. Where the international
application contains two or more claims, “priority date” means the filing date
of the earliest application whose priority is claimed.

5.059. What does “priority period” mean?

[Rule 2.4,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r2.html) [Rule
80.5](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r80.html)  
“Priority period” means the period of 12 months from the filing date of the
earlier application whose priority is claimed in the international
application. The day of filing of the earlier application is not included in
this period. Subject to what is said below, in order to validly claim
priority, an international application must always be filed within the
priority period; otherwise, the right of priority will be lost. Note that, in
certain cases (refer to Rules 2.4(b) and 80.5) the priority period may expire
on a later day. Note further that, if the international application is filed
after the expiration of the priority period but within a certain time limit,
it may be possible, under limited circumstances, to request restoration of the
right of priority (refer to paragraphs 5.062 to 5.069; this, however, will not
apply to all Contracting States).

5.060. What are the principles governing the right of priority for
international applications?

[Article 8(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a8.html),  [Article
8(2)(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a8.html),  [Article
11(3)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a11.html),  [Article
11(4)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a11.html),  [Rule
4.10](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html)  
The PCT makes no change to the provisions which govern the right of priority
and are contained in Article 4 of the Paris Convention for the Protection of
Industrial Property; WTO members are required to apply Paris Convention
Article 4 in accordance with Article 2.1 of the Agreement on Trade-Related
Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS Agreement). Since an
international application has the effect in each designated State of a regular
national application, it may claim priority from another application, and be
used as the basis for a priority claim in a later application, just like any
regular national application. So far as PCT procedures are concerned, the
priority claim is particularly important because it establishes a priority
date for the purposes of computing time limits under the PCT. The validity of
a priority claim is not determined during the international phase (although
the matter is taken into consideration for the purposes of establishing
international preliminary reports on patentability (Chapter I or II of the
PCT)). Also, a priority claim would, subject to the possibility of correction
(refer to paragraphs 6.038 to 6.044), for the purposes of the procedure under
the PCT, be considered not to have been made if the application, the priority
of which is claimed, was not filed either in a country party to the Paris
Convention or in a member of the WTO, if the international application were
filed more than two months after the expiration of the priority period (refer
to paragraphs 5.062 and 6.038) or if the priority claim did not include the
required details concerning the date on which and the country and/or Office,
as the case may be, where the earlier application was filed.

5.061. How must dates be indicated in the priority claim?

[Section 110](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s110.html)  
Each date appearing in the international application or in any correspondence
must be indicated by the Arabic number of the day, the name of the month and
the Arabic number of the year, in that order. In the request, after, below or
above that indication, the date should be repeated in parentheses with a two-
digit Arabic numeral each for the number of the day and the number of the
month, the number of the year must be indicated in four digits, in that order
and separated by periods, slants or hyphens, for example: "20 March 2006
(20.03.2006) or 20 March 2006 (20/03/2006) or 20 March 2006 (20-03-2006)."

5.062. What are the consequences if the international application is filed
after the expiration of the priority period?

[Rule 26 _bis_.3](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26bis.html)  
Where an international application has an international filing date which is
later than the date on which the priority period expired (refer to paragraph
5.059) but within a period of two months from that date, the priority claim
concerned will not be declared void for the purposes of the international
phase of the PCT procedure, irrespective of whether the restoration of the
right of priority is requested (refer to below), or whether such a request is
accepted or refused by the receiving Office. Where the priority claim in
question is the only or the earliest priority claim in the international
application, it will continue to serve as the basis to calculate all time
limits during the international phase. Note, however, that the fact that the
priority claim is retained in the international application does not mean in
any way that the validity of such a priority claim in the national phase is
assured.

In respect of such a priority claim, the applicant may file a request for the
restoration of the right of priority with the receiving Office (refer to the
following paragraphs for the procedure relating to the restoration of the
right of priority). Several receiving Offices have, however, notified the
International Bureau under Rule 26 _bis_.3(j) of the incompatibility of the
provisions governing such requests to restore the right of priority with the
national laws applied by those Offices. As a result, those receiving Offices
will not apply those provisions and thus do not accept such requests. A list
of Offices which will not accept requests under Rule 26 _bis_.3(a) can be
found on WIPO’s website at
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html#R_26bis_3_j>.
To the extent that the applicant is aware, before filing the international
application, of the need to file a request for restoration, he/she should
consider filing the international application with a competent receiving
Office that does accept such requests. For example, the receiving Office of
the International Bureau accepts such requests and is competent for
international applications filed by a national or resident of any PCT
Contracting State. If the need to file a request to restore only becomes
apparent after the international application has already been filed, the
applicant may request the receiving Office to transmit the international
application to the receiving Office of the International Bureau under Rule
19.4(a)(iii).

5.063. What is the time limit for requests for the restoration of the right of
priority?

[Rule 26 _bis_.3(e)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26bis.html)  
The time limit for complying with the requirements to request the restoration
of the right of priority is two months from the date on which the priority
period expired. If the receiving Office requires the applicant to provide a
declaration or evidence in support of the statement of reasons for failure to
timely file the international application (refer to paragraph 5.064), it will
allow the applicant a reasonable time under the circumstances to furnish such
documents.

5.064. How should a request for the restoration of the right of priority be
filed with the receiving Office?

[Rule 4.1(c)(v),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule 26
_bis_.1(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26bis.html) [Rule 26
_bis_.3](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26bis.html)  
The request form, Box VI, includes an option for the applicant to request
restoration of the right of priority and a similar option is included in ePCT.
The applicant only needs to add an indication, in the case of multiple
priority claims, to clarify in respect of which priority claim restoration is
requested. The request to restore the right of priority may also be submitted
separately from the request form by way of a letter to the receiving Office.

For the request to restore the right of priority to be successful, the
following requirements must be met:

— the international application must contain a priority claim to an earlier
application. In addition, this international application must have been filed
within two months from the date of the expiration of the priority period. If,
the international application does not contain the relevant priority claim at
the time of filing, such a claim must be added, in accordance with Rule 26
_bis_.1(a) (refer to paragraphs 6.038 to 6.040), within two months from the
expiration of the priority period (refer to Rules 26 _bis_.3(c) and (e));

— the request to restore should state the reasons for the failure to file the
international application within the priority period. This statement of
reasons should be submitted as a separate document and accompany the request
for restoration in the request form or may be filed subsequently within the
time limit under Rule 26 _bis_.3(e). The statement of reasons should take into
consideration the restoration criterion which the applicant seeks to satisfy,
from among those applied to such requests by the Office (refer to Annex C and
paragraph 5.065);

— a fee for requesting restoration, if applicable, must be paid (refer to
Annex C for whether a particular receiving Office requires a fee for the
restoration of the right of priority) before the expiration of the time limit
under Rule 26 _bis_.3(e); the time limit for payment of the fee may be
extended for a period of up to two months from the expiration of the time
limit under Rule 26 _bis_.3(e) (Rule 26 _bis_.3(d));

— if required by the receiving Office, a declaration or other evidence in
support of the statement of reasons should preferably be furnished together
with the request to restore but may also be furnished upon invitation by the
receiving Office (Rule 26 _bis_.3(f)) (for the applicable time limit, refer to
paragraph 5.063).

5.065. What are the criteria for restoration applied by the receiving Office?

[Rule 26 _bis_.3(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26bis.html)
[Rule 49 _ter_.1(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49ter.html)
[Rule 49 _ter_.1(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49ter.html)  
There are two possible criteria for restoration: either the failure to file
the international application within the priority period occurred in spite of
due care required by the circumstances having been taken or the failure to
file the international application within the priority period was
unintentional. All Offices to which these Rules are applicable (refer to
paragraph 5.062) must apply at least one of these criteria. If a receiving
Office wishes, it may apply both criteria for restoration and leave the choice
to the applicant as to which criterion is sought to be applied in a specific
case, noting that it would be advantageous for the applicant to obtain a
positive finding by the receiving Office on the stricter criterion of “due
care” since such a finding would in general be effective in all designated
States, unlike a finding on the less strict “unintentionality” criterion.
Furthermore, a receiving Office will be free to apply, upon request of the
applicant, first the “due care” criterion and then, if the receiving Office
finds that that criterion is not complied with, the “unintentionality”
criterion.

5.066. What needs to be included in the statement of reasons for the request
to restore the right of priority and what additional information may be
required in support of a request for restoration of the right of priority?

[Rule 26 _bis_.3(f)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26bis.html)  
The statement of reasons should indicate the reasons for the failure to file
the international application within the priority period. It should contain
all the relevant facts and circumstances which would allow the receiving
Office to determine that the failure to file the international application
within the priority period occurred in spite of due care required by the
circumstances having been taken or was unintentional. Under Rule 26
_bis_.3(f), the receiving Offices may require that a declaration or other
evidence in support of the statement of reasons be furnished or, if some
evidence has already been provided, that additional evidence be furnished.
When submitting the statement of reasons and possibly any declaration or
evidence in support of a request for restoration of the right of priority, the
applicant must bear in mind that in general all these documents will be made
publicly available by the International Bureau on PATENTSCOPE after the
international publication of the international application (refer to paragraph
5.067 for exceptions). Any private or confidential information which is not
necessary for supporting the request itself, should preferably be left out.

5.067. Can the applicant request that certain documents relating to a request
for the restoration of the right of priority not be transmitted to the
International Bureau?

[Rule 26
_bis_.3(h-_bis_)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26bis.html)  
Generally, receiving Offices will forward to the International Bureau all
documents submitted in connection with a request for restoration of the right
of priority. However, the applicant can make a reasoned request to the
receiving Office that certain documents or parts thereof relating to such a
request not be forwarded. Receiving Offices may also contact the applicant
directly where such documents are noted to invite the applicant to submit a
reasoned request for omission. If the receiving Office, upon the applicant’s
request, finds that any document does not obviously serve the purpose of
informing the public about the international application and publication or
public access to any such document would clearly prejudice the personal or
economic interests of any person and there is no prevailing public interest to
have access to that document or part of it, it will not transmit that document
or part of it to the International Bureau. The applicant should note that if
essential information, necessary for establishing that the criterion for “due
care” had been met, is not forwarded and thus not made available to the
designated/elected Offices, it is more likely that the request for restoration
of the right of priority will be reviewed during the national phase, and that
he/she will be required to provide equivalent information again to the
designated/elected Offices.

5.068. Will there be an opportunity for dialogue with the receiving Office
should that Office intend to refuse the request?

[Rule 26 _bis_.3(g)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26bis.html)  
If the receiving Office intends to refuse the request for restoration of the
priority claim, it is required to notify the applicant of its intention. The
applicant then has an opportunity to make observations on the intended refusal
within a reasonable time limit, specified in the notification of intended
refusal (Form PCT/RO/158). Note that this notification may in practice be sent
to the applicant together with an invitation to file a declaration or other
evidence.

5.069. What are the effects of a decision by a receiving Office on designated
Offices?

[Rule 49 _ter_.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49ter.html)  
A decision by a receiving Office to restore a right of priority based on the
criterion of “due care” will, as a general rule, be effective in all
designated Offices, unless the designated Office submitted a notification of
incompatibility under Rule 49 _ter_.1(g). A decision by a receiving Office to
restore a right of priority based on the criterion of “unintentionality” will
be effective only in those designated States the applicable laws of which
provided for restoration of the right of priority based on that criterion or
on a criterion which, from the viewpoint of applicants, is more favorable than
that criterion. A decision by a receiving Office to refuse to restore the
right of priority can always be reviewed by a designated Office, unless it has
submitted a notification of incompatibility under Rule 49 _ter_.1(g), such
that restoration is not possible in that jurisdiction.

In addition, a review of a positive decision may be made by a designated
Office in the limited situation where it reasonably doubts that one of the
substantive requirements for restoration was complied with. No review is
permitted on purely formal grounds, such as, for example, the ground that the
relevant fee in the international phase might not have been paid.

5.070. When and to whom must the priority document be furnished?

[Rule 4.1(c)(ii),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule
17.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r17.html) [Rule
17.2(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r17.html) [Section
411](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s411.html)  
Before the expiration of 16 months from the priority date (or, where the
applicant requests early processing pursuant to Article 23(2), before that
request is made), a certified copy of the earlier application (whether it is a
national, regional or international application) must be submitted by the
applicant either to the International Bureau or to the receiving Office
(unless it has already been filed with the receiving Office together with the
international application). Any certified copy that reaches the International
Bureau after the expiration of 16 months from the priority date, but before
the date of international publication of the international application, will
be considered to have reached the International Bureau on the last day of that
16-month period. The copy must be certified by the authority with which the
earlier application was filed. Where that authority is the same Office as the
receiving Office, the applicant may, instead of submitting the certified copy,
request the authority, before the expiration of 16 months from the priority
date, to prepare and transmit the certified copy to the International Bureau;
in that case, the fee usually charged by the Office should be paid when the
request for transmittal is made; the easiest solution for the applicant is to
make this request at the time of filing the international application, by
marking the check-box provided for that purpose in Box No. VI of the request
Form PCT/RO/101. Furthermore, where the priority document is available to the
International Bureau from a digital library in accordance with Rule
17.1(b-_bis_) and Section 715(a), the applicant may, prior to the date of
international publication, request the International Bureau to obtain the
priority document from such a digital library (refer to paragraph 5.070B). The
International Bureau will not charge a fee for this service. The easiest
solution for the applicant is to make this request with the International
Bureau at the time of filing the international application, by marking the
check-box provided for that purpose in Box No. VI.

5.070A. How will I know if my earlier application is available to the PCT
System from a digital library?

The only available “digital library” in the PCT system is the WIPO Digital
Access Service (DAS). This offers access to earlier applications filed at the
receiving Office of the International Bureau and a number of national Offices
for use as priority documents. However, unlike some of the bilateral priority
document sharing systems between national Offices, the earlier application is
only available if the applicant has taken specific steps to make the document
available.

5.070B. What steps must be taken so that the International Bureau can obtain
the priority document from a digital library, in particular via DAS?

The procedural steps that the applicant needs to follow so that the earlier
application will be available to the International Bureau are set out on the
DAS website at the following address:
<https://www.wipo.int/das/en/description.html> and on the individual web sites
of the participating offices (refer to the list at
<https://www.wipo.int/das/en/participating_offices.html>). Having carried out
these steps, the applicant will receive an access code. The applicant should
then mark the applicable check-boxes in Box No. VI, and indicate the access
code for each specific priority document or submit a written request
containing this information to the International Bureau.

5.070C. What steps must be taken when the earlier application to be made
available via DAS is an international application?

Applicants may also claim priority from an international application when
filing a patent application at another Office (an Office of Second Filing). If
the international application was filed with the receiving Office of the
International Bureau, the applicant may send a letter to that Office
requesting that the document be made available via DAS, and then request the
Office of Second Filing to retrieve that document from DAS. For international
applications filed at other receiving Offices, check the list of Offices at
<https://www.wipo.int/das/en/participating_offices.html> to refer to whether a
particular participating Office will make international applications, filed at
its receiving Office, available to DAS in addition to national applications.

5.070D

The International Bureau notifies the applicant of the date on which the
priority document was received or obtained. Any designated Office may request
a copy of the priority document from the International Bureau. Provided the
applicant has either furnished a certified copy or requested that the priority
document be transmitted or obtained and paid the necessary fee as described
above, no designated Office may ask the applicant to furnish a certified copy
of the earlier application. Where this is not the case and unless the earlier
application of which priority is claimed was filed with the designated Office
in its capacity as national Office or if the priority document is available to
the designated Office from a digital library, any designated Office may
disregard the priority claim. The designated Office must first, however, have
given the applicant an opportunity to furnish the priority document within a
time limit which is reasonable under the circumstances. For the obligation of
the applicant to furnish a simple (not certified) copy of the priority
document to the designated Offices (including a copy of the priority
certificate), refer to National Phase, paragraph
[5.009](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctnp&doc-
lang=en&doc-type=guide#_5.009) and the relevant National Chapters.

5.071

[Rule 17.2(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r17.html)  
For information as to the obtaining of copies of the priority document after
international publication, refer to paragraph 9.023.

Box No. VII: International Searching Authority

5.072. Must an applicant indicate a choice of International Searching
Authority?

[Rule 4.1(b)(iv),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule 4.14
_bis_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html)  
Where two or more International Searching Authorities are competent to carry
out the international search, the applicant must indicate the Authority chosen
in the appropriate space in Box No. VII. For details on which International
Searching Authorities are competent, refer to Annex C and paragraph 7.002.

5.073. Can the International Searching Authority be requested to take into
account the results of an earlier search?

[Rule 4.1(b)(ii),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule
4.12,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule 12
_bis_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r12bis.html),  [Rule
16.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r16.html) [Rule 23
_bis_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r23bis.html),  [Rule
41.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r41.html)  
If the applicant wishes the International Searching Authority, in carrying out
the international search, to take into account the results of an earlier
international, international-type or national search (Rule 4.12) and has
complied with all the requirements under Rule 12 _bis_.1, the Authority must,
to the extent possible, take into account the results of the earlier search if
it was carried out by the same Office as that which is acting as the
International Searching Authority (Rule 41.1(i)). However, if the earlier
search was carried out by another International Searching Authority or
national (or regional) Office, the International Searching Authority may
choose whether it takes into account the results of the earlier search (Rule
41.1(ii)). To the extent that the International Searching Authority takes such
earlier search results into account, the International Searching Authority
must reduce the search fee to the extent and under the conditions provided for
in the agreement under Article 16(3)(b) (Rule 16.3). International Searching
Authorities are free to decide the extent and conditions for such search fee
reductions. For the full texts of the agreements under Article 16(3)(b) refer
to <https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/access/isa_ipea_agreements.html> (also refer
to paragraph 5.198).

The request form, Continuation of Box No. VII (item 1), includes an option for
the applicant to request that the results of an earlier search be taken into
consideration by the International Searching Authority and a similar option is
included in ePCT. The applicant only needs to check the corresponding box in
Continuation of Box No. VII (item 1) and identify the earlier application
(whether national, regional or international) in respect of which the earlier
search was carried by including the filing date, the filing number and the
country of filing.

[Rule 12 _bis_.1(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r12bis.html)  
In general, if the applicant has made a request for the results of an earlier
search to be taken into account, he/she should – together with the
international application and at the time of filing – provide the receiving
Office with a copy of the results of the earlier search. However, the
applicant will not need to furnish a copy of the earlier search results in the
following cases:

[Rule 12 _bis_.1(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r12bis.html)  
— where the earlier search was carried out by the same Authority or Office as
that which will act as the International Searching Authority;

[Rule 12 _bis_.1(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r12bis.html)  
— where the earlier search was not carried out by the International Searching
Authority indicated in Box No. VII of the request form but by the same Office
as that which is acting as the receiving Office; in this case, the applicant
can request the receiving Office to prepare and transmit the earlier search
results directly to the International Searching Authority by marking the
check-box provided in Continuation of Box No. VII (item 1) of the request
form. This request may be subject to the payment of a fee;

[Rule 12 _bis_.1(d)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r12bis.html)  
— where, although the earlier search was not carried out by the receiving
Office or the International Searching Authority, a copy of the earlier search
results is available to that Office or Authority in a form and manner
acceptable to it, for example, from a digital library and the applicant
indicated this fact as provided for in Continuation of Box No. VII (item 1) of
the request form.

If the applicant wants the results of more than one search to be taken into
account, the above-mentioned indications must be specified for each and every
earlier search. In addition, where the applicant requests the International
Searching Authority to take into account the results of more than one earlier
search, the sheet of the request form containing the Continuation of Box No.
VII, Use of Earlier Search and Classification Results, should be duplicated as
many times as necessary and marked "continuation sheet of item 1 of
Continuation of Box No. VII" to allow the applicant to comply with the
requirements and provide the required information for each earlier
application.

5.073A. May the International Searching Authority request the applicant to
furnish any other documents in connection with an earlier search than those
transmitted by the receiving Office?

[Rule 4.12,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule 12
_bis_.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r12bis.html)  
Unless the applicant has done so already, the International Authority may
invite the applicant (Form PCT/ISA/238) to furnish to it a copy of the earlier
application, a translation (where required) of that earlier application into a
language accepted by the International Searching Authority, a translation
(where required) of the results of the earlier search into a language accepted
by the International Searching Authority and/or a copy of any document cited
in the results of the earlier search. However, the International Searching
Authority may not require the applicant to furnish any or some of those
documents in the following cases:

[Rule 12 _bis_.2(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r12bis.html)  
— where the earlier search was carried out by the same Authority or Office as
that which will act as the International Searching Authority;

[Rule 12 _bis_.2(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r12bis.html)  
— where the applicant marks the check-box provided in Continuation of Box No.
VII (item 1) of the request form stating that the international application is
the same or substantially the same as the earlier application in respect of
which the earlier search was carried out, except that it is filed in a
different language, the International Searching Authority may not require a
copy of the earlier application or a translation thereof;

[Rule 12 _bis_.2(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r12bis.html)  
— where a copy of the earlier application or of any document cited in the
results of the earlier search or a translation of the earlier application or a
translation of the results of the earlier search are available to the
International Searching Authority in a manner acceptable to it, and if the
applicant has indicated so by marking the check-box provided in Continuation
of Box No. VII (item 1) of the request form.

5.073B. Will the receiving Office also transmit the earlier search and
classification results to the International Searching Authority where the
applicant did not make a request to take into account the results of an
earlier search?

[Rule 23 _bis_.2(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r23bis.html)
[Rule 41.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r41.html)  
Where the international application claims priority of an earlier application
and the applicant did not make any indication in item 1 of Continuation of Box
No. VII of the request form, the receiving Office is nevertheless required to
transmit to the International Searching Authority a copy of the earlier search
and classification results (unless such a copy is already available to the
International Searching Authority) if the earlier application was filed with
the same national or regional Office as that which is acting as receiving
Office, and that Office has carried out the search in respect of the earlier
application. The receiving Office may transmit a copy of the earlier search
and classification results if the earlier application was filed with a
different Office but where the results of that earlier search and
classification are nevertheless available to the receiving Office. The
receiving Office is only obliged to transmit any earlier search and
classification results which are available to it at the time of filing of the
international application.

[Rule 23 _bis_.2(e)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r23bis.html)  
Some Offices have notified the International Bureau
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html>) that the
transmission of copies of earlier search and classification results without
the authorization of the applicant is not compatible with their national law.
Therefore, where the international application is filed with a receiving
Office that has notified the International Bureau accordingly, the applicant
may nevertheless authorize the receiving Office to transmit earlier search and
classification results to the International Searching Authority by marking the
first check-box in item 2.3 of Continuation of Box No. VII of the request
form. Only the international applications filed with the following receiving
Offices are concerned by this situation: the Australian Patent Office, the
Finnish Patent and Registration Office (PRH), the Hungarian Intellectual
Property Office (HIPO), the Industrial Property Office (Czechia), the
Intellectual Property Office of Singapore, the Israel Patent Office, the Japan
Patent Office (JPO), the Norwegian Industrial Property Office, the Swedish
Intellectual Property Office (PRV) and the United States Patent and Trademark
Office (USPTO).

Where the earlier search concerns an international application and that
earlier search was carried out by a different International Searching
Authority than the International Searching Authority indicated in Box No. VII
of the request form, the applicant may authorize the receiving Office to
transmit the earlier search and classification results to the International
Searching Authority indicated in Box No. VII of the request form, by marking
the second check-box in item 2.3 of Continuation of Box No. VII of the request
form.

5.073C. May the applicant request the receiving Office not to transmit the
earlier search results to the International Searching Authority?

[Rule 23 _bis_.2(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r23bis.html)  
Some Offices have notified the International Bureau (refer to
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html>) that they
may, upon request of the applicant, decide not to transmit the results of an
earlier search to the International Searching Authority. Where the
international application is filed with an Office that has notified the
International Bureau accordingly, namely, the Finnish Patent and Registration
Office (PRH), the German Patent and Trade Mark Office and the Swedish
Intellectual Property Office (PRV), the applicant may request the receiving
Office not to transmit the earlier search results to the ISA, by marking the
check-box in item 2.2 of Continuation of Box No. VII of the request form.

5.073D. Will the International Searching Authority take the results of an
earlier search into account if the applicant has not made a request under Rule
4.12?

[Rule 41.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r41.html)  
Where the international application claims the priority of an earlier
application in respect of which a search has been carried out by the same
Office that acts as International Searching Authority, the Authority is
required to take the results of that earlier search into account when carrying
out the international search. Where the receiving Office has transmitted to
the International Searching Authority a copy of any earlier search or
classification results, or where such a copy is otherwise available to it, for
example, from a digital library, the International Searching Authority may
take those results into account when carrying out the international search.

Box No. VIII: Declarations

5.074. What declarations may be referred to in Box No. VIII and included in
Boxes Nos. VIII(i) to (v)?

The applicant may, for the purposes of the national law applicable in one or
more designated States, include any of the following declarations under Rule
4.17:

[Rule 4.17(i),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule 51
_bis_.1(a)(i)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51bis.html)  
Box No.VIII(i): declaration as to the identity of the inventor (This
declaration need not be made if the name and address of the inventor are
indicated in the request, that is, usually in Boxes No. II and/or III).

[Rule 4.17(ii),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule 51
_bis_.1(a)(ii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51bis.html)  
Box No.VIII(ii): declaration as to the applicant’s entitlement, as at the
international filing date, to apply for and be granted a patent. (This
declaration does not apply to situations where the applicant's entitlement was
acquired only after the international filing date.)

[Rule 4.17(iii),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule 51
_bis_.1(a)(iii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51bis.html)  
Box No.VIII(iii): declaration as to the applicant’s entitlement, as at the
international filing date, to claim priority of the earlier application. (This
declaration does not apply to situations where the applicant’ entitlement was
acquired only after the international filing date.)

[Rule 4.17(iv),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule 51
_bis_.1(a)(iv)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51bis.html)  
Box No.VIII(iv): declaration of inventorship (only for the purposes of the
United States of America). (Submitting a declaration of inventorship during
the international phase may be advantageous as inventors may be more difficult
to be reached when the application enters the national phase).

[Rule 4.17(v),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule 51
_bis_.1(a)(v)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51bis.html)  
Box No.VIII(v): declaration as to non-prejudicial disclosures or exceptions to
lack of novelty.

5.075. What is the purpose of those declarations?

[Rule 4.17,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule 51
_bis_.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51bis.html) [Rule 51
_bis_.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51bis.html)  
The purpose of declarations under Rule 4.17 is to enable applicants to comply
with some of the national requirements of the designated Offices referred to
in Rule 51 _bis_.1 already during the international phase. The national laws
of many designated Offices require the applicant to furnish documents or
evidence relating to certain matters, for example the applicant’s entitlement
to apply for or be granted a patent, during the national phase. By submitting
declarations under Rule 4.17 during the international phase, the applicant
will generally not have to furnish any documents or evidence on the particular
subject matter covered by the declaration to any designated Office which has
such a requirement. For example, when the applicant furnishes a declaration
under Rule 4.17(ii) during the international phase, he/she does generally not
need to submit any further document or evidence relating to the applicant’s
entitlement to apply for or be granted a patent (for example an assignment
document transferring rights from the inventor to the applicant) during the
national phase before designated Offices which have such requirements under
their national law (refer also to paragraph 5.081). The PCT does not require
that declarations be submitted during the international phase, but if they
are, they should be prepared using standardized wording (refer to paragraphs
5.076 to 5.078). No other declaration(s) may be included in any of Boxes VIII
(i) to (v).

5.076. How must the declarations be presented in the request?

[Rule 4.17,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Section
211](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s211.html),  [Section
212](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s212.html),  [Section
213](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s213.html),  [Section
214](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s214.html),  [Section
215](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s215.html)  
Each declaration should be made on the appropriate sheet (Box No. VIII (i) to
(v)); a "continuation sheet for declaration" (Continuation of Box No. VIII (i)
to (v)) should be used in case any single declaration does not fit on the
corresponding sheet. The declarations must be worded using the standardized
wording provided for in Sections 211 to 215. Except in respect of the
declaration of inventorship for the purposes of the designation of the United
States of America (refer to paragraph 5.077), the applicant must choose those
items and elements of the standardized wording that apply and place them in
the appropriate order, taking into account the facts of the case, the
chronology of events, etc. Detailed guidance on making these declarations is
contained in the Notes to the request form. If no declaration is made, none of
the declaration sheets should be included in the request.

5.077. Where can I find the text for the declaration of inventorship for the
purposes of the designation of the United States of America?

[Rule 4.17(iv),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Section
214(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s214.html),  [Section
214(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s214.html)  
The text of the declaration of inventorship for the purposes of the
designation of the United States of America only is pre-printed in Box No.
VIII(iv) of the request form since that text must be used as set out in
Section 214, no parts may be omitted or presented in an order different from
that used in the form. When this declaration is furnished after the
international filing date, the PCT application number must be added to the
declaration in the space provided for this purpose. In addition, when there
are several inventors, all inventors must sign and date a complete declaration
containing all inventors, even if they do not sign the same (copy of the)
declaration, and the name, residence and address must be included for each
inventor.

5.078. Must the standardized wordings of declarations always be used?

[Rule 51 _bis_.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51bis.html)  
The standardized wording should always be used otherwise the designated
Offices may require the applicant to furnish a new declaration or further
evidence in the national phase. It should be noted, that even if a declaration
has not been made using the standardized wording, the International Bureau
will nevertheless publish it. It will then be up to each designated Office
concerned to determine whether it can accept the declaration or not; in other
words, the applicant will not have any guarantee that an Office will accept
it. If the circumstances of a particular case are such that the standardized
wording under Rule 4.17 is not applicable the applicant should consider
complying with the requirement during the national phase.

5.079. Must a declaration under Rule 4.17 be signed?

[Rule 4.17(iv),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Section
214(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s214.html),  [Section
214(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s214.html)  
Only the declaration of inventorship for the purposes of the designation of
the United States of America must be signed and dated by all inventors. No
other declaration must be signed.

5.080. Do all designated Offices accept declarations made under Rule 4.17
under their national law?

[Rule 51 _bis_.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51bis.html)  
All designated Offices that have special national requirements allowed under
the PCT accept such declarations. For more information about which States
require the substantive information in each of the declarations, refer to
“Special requirements of the Office” in the corresponding National Chapter
(Summary) for the designated Office concerned, and National Phase, paragraphs
[5.003](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctnp&doc-
lang=en&doc-type=guide#_5.003) to
[5.005](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctnp&doc-
lang=en&doc-type=guide#_5.005).

5.081. May the designated Offices require further evidence during the national
phase?

[Rule 51 _bis_.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51bis.html)  
Where the declaration in question is one of those referred to in Rule 4.17(i)
to (iv), the designated Office may not require any document or evidence
relating to the subject matter of such declaration unless it may reasonably
doubt the veracity of that declaration. Where the declaration in question is
that referred to in Rule 4.17(v), the designated Office may require further
documents or evidence, noting that the matter of non-prejudicial disclosures
and exceptions to lack of novelty is a substantive matter of patentability. It
is to be noted that the fact that a declaration is made does not, of itself,
establish the matters declared: those matters remain for determination by the
designated Offices in accordance with the applicable national law.

5.082. How do designated Offices receive the declarations relevant to them?

[Rule 48.2(a)(x),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r48.html) [Rule
48.2(b)(iv)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r48.html)  
All declarations will be part of the published international application
(refer to paragraph 9.015) and will therefore not be communicated separately
to the designated Offices concerned.

5.083. What is the purpose of the check-boxes in Box No. VIII?

The check-boxes in Box No. VIII should be completed by the applicant to allow
the receiving Office to verify that the declaration(s) referred to correspond
to those made in Boxes No. VIII (i) to (v).

If the applicant chooses not to make any declaration at the time of filing the
international application or if the declarations are not yet available at the
time of filing, the request should not include the optional sheets for
declarations and nothing should be marked in the check-boxes in Box No. VIII.

5.083A. Can a declaration referred to in Rule 4.17 be corrected or added
during the international phase?

[Rule 26 _ter_.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26ter.html)  
A declaration may be corrected, or a new (missing) declaration added, by a
notice submitted to the International Bureau. For further details, refer to
paragraphs 6.045 to 6.050. It should be noted, however, that a declaration may
not be withdrawn once it has been filed.

Box No. IX: Check List

5.084. What is the purpose of the check list?

[Rule 3.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r3.html) [Section
313](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s313.html)  
Box No. IX should be completed by the applicant to allow the receiving Office
to verify the completeness of the documents constituting and/or accompanying
the international application and, in particular, to check whether the
international application as filed actually contains the number of sheets in
paper form indicated in items (a) to (f).

5.085

The actual number of sheets constituting each element of the international
application as well as their total should be indicated (for the numbering of
sheets, refer to paragraph 5.012). As for the sheets of the request, they are
at least four in number (the first sheet, the second sheet, the third sheet
and the last sheet). There may be more sheets if one or more optional sheets
are used (the continuation sheet for Box No. III, the supplemental sheet, the
declaration sheet or the continuation sheet for declaration).

5.086

[Article 27(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a27.html),  [Rule
13 _bis_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13bis.html),  [Rule 51
_bis_.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51bis.html) [Section
209](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s209.html)  
For details on the completion of Box No. IX and on the kinds of items which
may need to be filed with the international application, refer to the Notes to
the request form. Also refer to the National Chapters for details concerning
certain matters in relation to designated Offices.

5.087

[Rule 3.3(a)(iii),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r3.html) [Rule
8.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r8.html) [Section
201](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s201.html)  
The applicant must further indicate in Box No. IX the number of that figure of
the drawings (if any) which is suggested to accompany the abstract for
publication (refer to paragraph 5.170) and preferably also the language of
filing of the international application.

Box No. X: Signature of Applicant or Agent

5.088. Who must sign the international application and when?

[Article 14(1)(a)(i)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a14.html),
[Rule 4.1(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule
4.15,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule 26.2
_bis_(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26.html) [Rule 51
_bis_.1(a)(vi),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51bis.html) [Rule
90.3](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html)  
The international application must be signed in Box No. X of the request by
the applicant, or, where there are two or more applicants, by all of them.
However, if there is more than one applicant, the receiving Office will not
invite the applicant to furnish missing signatures when the request is signed
by at least one of the applicants. Note, however, that in this case, any
designated Office may in accordance with the applicable national law require
the confirmation of the international application by the signature of any
applicant for the designated State who has not signed the request. Subject to
certain conditions indicated in paragraph 5.089, the request may be signed by
the agent instead of the applicant(s).

5.089. May the international application be signed by an agent?

[Rule 2.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r2.html) [Rule
4.1(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule
4.15,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule
90.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html) [Rule
90.4,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html) [Rule
90.5](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html)  
The international application may be signed by an agent, but in that case the
agent must be appointed as such in a separate power of attorney signed by the
applicant. The power of attorney has to be submitted to the receiving Office
unless the receiving Office has waived the requirement to furnish a separate
power of attorney (refer to paragraphs 5.041 to 5.051, and 11.001 to 11.014).
If there are two or more applicants, the request may be signed by an agent on
behalf of all or only some of them; in that case the agent must be appointed
as such in one or more powers of attorney signed by the applicants on whose
behalf the agent signs the application. Where a power of attorney appointing
an agent who signs an international application is missing and the receiving
Office requires that a power of attorney be furnished, the signature is
treated as missing until the power of attorney is submitted. For the case of a
general power of attorney, refer to paragraphs 5.043 and 11.009.

5.090. How must the international application be signed?

The signature should be executed indelibly in a dark color, preferably in
black ink, so that it will appear clearly in a photocopy. The name of each
person signing the international application should be indicated (preferably
typewritten) next to the signature. Where the person signs on behalf of a
legal entity, the capacity in which that person signs should also be
indicated.

5.091. When must or may a seal be used instead of a signature?

[Rule 2.3](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r2.html)  
In international applications filed with the China National Intellectual
Property Administration (CNIPA) as receiving Office, a seal may be used
instead of a signature. In the case of international applications filed in
English with the Japan Patent Office (JPO) as receiving Office and in respect
of which the European Patent Office has been chosen by the applicant as
International Searching Authority, a signature must be furnished instead of a
seal. In international applications filed with the Korean Intellectual
Property Office as receiving Office, a seal may be used instead of a
signature.

Notes to the Request Form

5.092. What are the Notes to the request form?

The Notes to the request form are intended to facilitate the completion of
that form. They indicate, in relation to each Box of that form, what
indications are required and how they are to be made. The Notes are not
required to be submitted with the request, however, and should not be numbered
as part of the request.

Fee Calculation Sheet

5.093. What is the fee calculation sheet?

The fee calculation sheet is intended to help the applicant to calculate the
total amount of fees payable to the receiving Office. The sheet is usually
annexed to the request form which the applicant obtains from the receiving
Office. It is not part of the form and is not counted as a sheet of the
request, however, and its use is not mandatory. Nevertheless, it is strongly
recommended that the applicant complete the fee calculation sheet and submit
it to the receiving Office. This will help the receiving Office to verify the
calculations and identify any errors. Where two or more International
Searching Authorities are competent for searching the international
application (refer to paragraph 7.002), the Authority which was chosen by the
applicant and indicated in Box No. VII of the request form (refer to paragraph
5.072) should also be indicated in the fee calculation sheet, together with
the amount of the applicable search fee (refer to paragraph 5.187). Refer to
the Notes to the fee calculation sheet for details about completion of the
sheet. For information about the payment of fees generally, refer to
paragraphs 5.184 to 5.199.

THE DESCRIPTION

5.094. How must the description be drafted?

[Article 5](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a5.html),  [Article
11(1)(iii)(d)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a11.html),  [Rule
5](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r5.html),  [Section
204](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s204.html)  
The description must disclose the invention in a manner sufficiently clear and
complete for it to be carried out by a person skilled in the art. It must
start with the title of the invention as appearing in Box No. I of the
request. Rule 5 contains detailed requirements as to the “manner and order” of
the description, which, generally, should be in six parts. Those parts should
have the following headings: “Technical Field,” “Background Art,” “Disclosure
of Invention,” “Brief Description of Drawings,” “Best Mode for Carrying Out
the Invention” or, where appropriate (refer to paragraph 5.096), “Mode(s) for
Carrying Out the Invention,” and “Industrial Applicability.”

5.095

The details required for the disclosure of the invention so that it can be
carried out by a person skilled in the art depend on the practice of the
national Offices. It is therefore recommended that due account be taken of
national practice (for instance in Japan and the United States of America)
when the description is drafted. The need to amend the description during the
national phase (refer to paragraph 5.111 below) may thus be avoided.

5.096

[Rule 5.1(a)(v)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r5.html)  
What is said in paragraph 5.095 applies likewise to the need to indicate the
best mode for carrying out the invention. If at least one of the designated
Offices requires the indication of the best mode (for instance, the United
States Patent and Trademark Office), that best mode must be indicated in the
description.

5.097

A description drafted with due regard to what is said in paragraphs 5.094 to
5.096 will be accepted by all the designated Offices. It might require more
care than the drafting of a national patent application, but certainly much
less effort than the drafting of multiple applications, which is necessary
where the PCT route is not used for filing in several countries.

5.098

The requirement of unity of invention is discussed, in connection with the
claims, in paragraphs 5.114 to 5.123.

5.099. What special requirements apply to the sequence listing part of the
description?

[Annex C of the Administrative
Instructions](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/annex_c.html), [Rule
12.1(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r12.html) [Rule
5.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r5.html) [Section
208](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s208.html), [Section
513](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s513.html)  
Where the international application contains disclosure of a nucleotide and/or
amino acid sequence required to be included in a sequence listing pursuant to
Annex C of the Administrative Instructions, the description must contain a
sequence listing part of the description which complies with the standard
provided for in Annex C (WIPO Standard ST.26). Under WIPO Standard ST.26, the
sequence listing must be filed in XML format. Any language-dependent free text
in the sequence listing must be provided in a language accepted for that
purpose by the receiving Office. If permitted by the receiving Office, the
same language-dependent free text may be provided in two languages within the
same sequence listing, English and another language (refer to Annex C of the
PCT Applicant’s Guide for the requirements of each receiving Office). For
further information relating to nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence
listings, including those filed for the purposes of international search,
refer below and to paragraphs 7.005 to 7.012.

5.100. How to best file an international application containing a sequence
listing?

[Annex C of the Administrative
Instructions](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/annex_c.html), [Annex F of
the Administrative
Instructions](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/annex_f.html), [Rule
19.4(a)(ii-_bis_),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r19.html) [Section
208](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s208.html), [Section
702](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s702.html)  
An international application containing a sequence listing is best filed in
electronic form, since the sequence listing must be filed in electronic form
in XML format. The application should be filed in an electronic document
format and/or by a means of transmittal accepted by the receiving Office for
the purposes of filing international applications in electronic form (Annex
F). Any receiving Office that does not accept the filing of sequence listings
in XML format will transmit the international application to the International
Bureau as receiving Office under Rule 19.4. The sequence listing must be
prepared in accordance with Annex C of the Administrative Instructions
(compliant with WIPO Standard ST.26), generated preferably using the WIPO
Sequence software (refer to paragraph 5.104). Applicants are strongly
discouraged from filing international applications with the main body on paper
and the sequence listing separately in electronic form. For international
applications filed on paper, the sequence listing in XML format must accompany
the international application (e.g., on an electronic carrier).

5.101. How is the fee for filing sequence listings calculated?

[Rule 13 _ter_.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13ter.html)
[Schedule of Fees](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/rtax.html),
[Section 707](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s707.html),  [Annex C of
the Administrative
Instructions](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/annex_c.html)  
No page fees are payable for any sequence listing filed in XML format in
accordance with WIPO Standard ST.26.

5.102. What happens if a separate electronic file appearing to be a disclosure
of sequences is filed in a format other than XML?

[Annex C of the Administrative
Instructions](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/annex_c.html)  
As explained in paragraphs 5.099 and 5.100, any sequence listing part of the
description must be filed in XML complying with WIPO Standard ST.26. If at the
time of filing the applicant included a separate electronic file disclosing
sequences in a format other than XML (e.g., in PDF or ST.25 TXT), the
receiving Office will invite the applicant to confirm whether the applicant
wishes to add the content as sheets to the main part of the description. If
this is the applicant’s intention, the applicant must confirm to the receiving
Office that the content of the file should form part of the description and if
the file is not in the format accepted for the main part of the description,
resubmit the content in such a format (e.g., PDF). Some receiving Offices may
convert the file into the acceptable format directly and ask the applicant to
confirm. Any sheets added to the main part of the description will be taken
into account in the calculation of the international filing fee. The applicant
may later amend the description (under Article 34 or at the time of national
phase entry) to include a sequence listing part of the description complying
with WIPO Standard ST.26. If the applicant fails to confirm or pay any
applicable fee for sheets in excess of 30, the content of the file originally
submitted will be disregarded and will not form part of the international
application.

5.103. Do all receiving Offices accept the filing of sequence listings in
electronic format?

[Rule 19.4(a)(ii-_bis_)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r19.html)  
Receiving Offices which are prepared to accept the filing of international
applications in electronic format are indicated in Annex C. Any receiving
Office which does not accept sequence listings filed in XML format will
transmit the international application to the International Bureau as
receiving Office under Rule 19.4.

5.104. Does the International Bureau recommend any software for the
preparation of sequence listings in electronic format?

To ensure compliance with the prescribed standard, sequence listings should be
created using WIPO Sequence (available for download from WIPO website at:  
<https://www.wipo.int/standards/en/sequence/index.html>).

5.105. What are the physical requirements for the description?

[Rule 11](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html),  [Section
109](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s109.html)  
Rule 11 lists the physical requirements which have to be met by an
international application. The paper must be of A4 size, white and durable.
The minimum margins must be 2 cm on the top, the bottom and the right side of
the sheet, and 2.5 cm on the left side of the sheet. The margins should not
exceed 3 cm on the bottom and the right side of the sheet and 4 cm on the top
and the left side of the sheet. The margins must be completely blank, except
that a file reference not exceeding 25 characters in length may be placed by
the applicant in the left-hand corner of the top margin within 1.5 cm from the
top of the sheet. The file reference may be composed either of letters of the
Latin alphabet or Arabic numerals, or both. The hyphen character (“-“) may be
used as a separator between alphanumeric characters. Any text matter in the
description must be in characters the capital letters of which are not less
than 0.28 cm.

5.106. How should the pages and lines be numbered?

[Rule 11.7,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html) [Rule
11.8,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html) [Rule
11.9,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html) [Section
207](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s207.html)  
The page number must be centered at the top or bottom of the sheet, but not in
the 2 cm margin (that is, a page number, if at the top of the sheet, must be
below the 2 cm margin, and if at the bottom of the sheet, above the 2 cm
margin). It is strongly recommended that every fifth line of each sheet be
numbered in the right half of the left margin. The description must be
typewritten or printed. The typing must be 1½ spaced and in dark indelible
color so as to permit direct reproduction. The capital letters of the
characters must be a minimum of 0.28 cm high.

5.107. How are chemical or mathematical formulae to be represented?

[Rule 11.9(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html) [Rule
11.10(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html)  
The description, the claims and the abstract may contain chemical or
mathematical formulae. Such formulae may be written by hand or drawn if
necessary but it is recommended that appropriate drafting aids or materials
such as stencils or transfers be used. For practical reasons formulae may be
grouped together on one or more sheets in the description and paginated with
it. It is recommended in such cases that each formula be designated by a
reference sign and the description should contain references to such formulae
whenever necessary. Chemical or mathematical formulae may also be grouped
together and be placed after the claims as drawings. In such a case, the
chemical or mathematical formulae must be drawn to comply with the
requirements for drawings and the sheets must be numbered as drawing sheets
(refer to paragraph 5.157).

5.108

[Rule 11.9(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html) [Rule
11.9(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html) [Rule
11.13(h)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html)  
Chemical or mathematical formulae must employ symbols in general use and must
be drawn in such a way that they are completely unambiguous. Numerals, letters
and signs which are not typed must be legible and identical in form in the
various formulae, irrespective of the element of the international application
in which they appear. Chemical or mathematical formulae appearing in the text
of the international application must have symbols the capital letters of
which are at least 0.28 cm high. Where they appear on sheets of drawings,
these symbols must be at least 0.32 cm high. All mathematical symbols used in
a formula which appear in a description or on sheets of drawings should be
explained in the description, unless their significance is clear from the
context. In any case, the mathematical symbols used may be collated in a list.

5.109. How are tables to be represented?

[Rule 11.10(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html) [Rule
11.10(d)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html)  
For the sake of convenience, tables may be grouped together in one or more
sheets of the description and paginated with it. If two or more tables are
necessary, each should be identified by a Roman numeral (independently of the
pagination of the description or drawings or of the figure numbering) or by a
capital letter, or by a title indicating its contents, or by some other means.
Each line and column in a table should begin with an entry explaining what it
represents and, if necessary, the units used. As far as possible, all tables
should be set out upright on the sheets. Where the tables cannot be presented
satisfactorily in an upright position, they may be placed sideways, with the
top of the tables on the left-hand side of the sheet.

5.110. How can obvious mistakes in the description be rectified?

[Rule 91](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r91.html)  
The procedure for rectification of obvious mistakes is explained in paragraphs
11.033 to 11.044. The omission of an entire sheet of the description cannot be
rectified without affecting the international filing date (refer to paragraphs
6.025 and 6.026). Changes other than the rectification of obvious mistakes are
considered amendments (refer to paragraph 5.111).

5.111. Can the description be amended during the international phase?

[Article 28](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a28.html),  [Article
34(2)(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a34.html),  [Article
41(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a41.html),  [Rule
52](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r52.html),  [Rule
78](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r78.html)  
The description can be amended during the international phase only if the
applicant files a demand for international preliminary examination (refer to
paragraph 10.001). The description can also be amended during the national
phase before each designated or elected Office (refer to National Phase).
Different provisions apply to amendment of the claims in the international
phase - refer to paragraph 5.127.

THE CLAIMS

5.112. How must claims be drafted?

[Article
611(1)(iii)(e)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a611.html),  [Rule
6.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r6.html) [Rule
6.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r6.html) [Rule
6.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r6.html) [Rule
6.4](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r6.html)  
The claim or claims must “define the matter for which protection is sought.”
Claims must be clear and concise. They must be fully supported by the
description. Rule 6 contains detailed requirements as to the number and
numbering of claims, the extent to which any claim may refer to other parts of
the international application, the manner of claiming, and dependent claims.
As to the manner of claiming, the claims must, whenever appropriate, be in two
distinct parts; namely, the statement of the prior art and the statement of
the features for which protection is sought (the characterizing portion).

5.113

[Rule 6.4(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r6.html)  
In principle, under the PCT, any dependent claim which refers to more than one
other claim (multiple dependent claim) must refer to such claims in the
alternative only, and multiple dependent claims cannot serve as a basis for
any other multiple dependent claim. However, the national laws of most
Contracting States permit a manner of claiming which is different from that
provided for in the preceding sentence, and the use of that different manner
of claiming is in principle also permitted under the PCT. For the purposes of
those designated States where that different manner of claiming is not
permitted, the applicant must decide which drafting style to adopt. If that
different manner of claiming is used, amendments may need to be made to the
claims during the national phase in those States which do not permit it.
Moreover, the national Offices of such States, when they act as International
Searching Authorities, may indicate under Article 17(2)(b) that a meaningful
search could not be carried out if that different manner of claiming is used
(refer to paragraph 7.014).

5.114. What is meant by the requirement of "unity of invention"?

[Article 3(4)(iii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a3.html),
[Rule 13](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13.html),  [Rule 45
_bis_.6(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)  
An international application should be drafted so that the claims relate to
only one invention or to a group of inventions so linked as to form a single
general inventive concept. This principle is laid down in Article 3(4)(iii)
and Rule 13. Observance of this requirement is checked by neither the
receiving Office nor the International Bureau, but it is checked by, and is
important to the procedure before, the International Searching Authority
(refer to paragraphs 7.015 to 7.021), the Authority specified for
supplementary search (refer to paragraph 8.044) and the International
Preliminary Examining Authority (refer to paragraph 10.072), and may be
relevant in the national phase before the designated and elected Offices.
Since separate searches and examinations are required for distinctly different
inventions, additional fees are required if the international search or
international preliminary examination is to cover two or more inventions (or
groups of inventions linked as just described). (For how the issue of unity of
invention affects the supplementary international search, refer to paragraph
8.043.)

5.115. How is the requirement of unity of invention satisfied?

[Rule 13.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13.html) [Rule
13.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13.html) [Section
206](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s206.html)  
Unity of invention is present only when there is a technical relationship
among the claimed inventions involving one or more of the same or
corresponding special technical features. The expression special technical
features means those technical features that define a contribution which each
of the claimed inventions, considered as a whole, makes over the prior art.
The determination whether a group of inventions is so linked as to form a
single inventive concept is made without regard to whether the inventions are
claimed in separate claims or as alternatives within a single claim. An
initial determination of unity of invention based on the assumption that the
claims avoid the prior art will be made before the prior art search but may be
reconsidered on the basis of the results of the search. Annex B of the
Administrative Instructions contains detailed criteria governing the
determination whether an international application complies with the
requirement of unity of invention under Rule 13. The following paragraphs set
out a summary of some of the more important criteria discussed in that Annex.
Illustrations of three particular situations are explained in detail below:

(i) combinations of different categories of claims (for example - product,
process, use, and apparatus or means),

(ii) so-called Markush practice and

(iii) the case of intermediate and final products.

5.116. May different categories of claims be combined in an international
application?

The method for determining unity of invention contained in Rule 13 is
construed as permitting, in particular, the inclusion of any one of the
following combinations of claims of different categories in the same
international application:

(i) in addition to an independent claim for a given product, an independent
claim for a process specially adapted for the manufacture of the said product,
and an independent claim for a use of the said product, or

(ii) in addition to an independent claim for a given process, an independent
claim for an apparatus or means specifically designed for carrying out the
said process, or

(iii) in addition to an independent claim for a given product, an independent
claim for a process specially adapted for the manufacture of the said product
and an independent claim for an apparatus or means specifically designed for
carrying out the said process,

it being understood that a process is specially adapted for the manufacture of
a product if it inherently results in the product and that an apparatus or
means is specifically designed for carrying out a process if the contribution
over the prior art of the apparatus or means corresponds to the contribution
the process makes over the prior art.

5.117

An apparatus or means is considered to be specifically designed for carrying
out a claimed process if the contribution over the prior art of the apparatus
or means corresponds to the contribution the process makes over the prior art.
Consequently, it would not be sufficient that the apparatus or means is merely
capable of being used in carrying out the claimed process.

5.118. What is permitted under the “Markush Practice”?

Rule 13.2 also governs the Markush practice wherein a single claim defines
alternatives of an invention - a common drafting practice for inventions in
the chemical field. In this special situation, the requirement of a technical
interrelationship and the same or corresponding special technical features as
defined in Rule 13.2, is considered to be met when the alternatives are of a
similar nature.

5.119

When the Markush grouping is for alternatives of chemical compounds, they are
regarded as being of a similar nature where the following criteria are
fulfilled:

(i) all alternatives have a common property or activity, and

(ii) (a) a common structure is present - that is, a significant structural
element is shared by all of the alternatives, or

(b) in cases where the common structure cannot be the unifying criteria, all
alternatives belong to a recognized class of chemical compounds in the art to
which the invention pertains.

5.120

When dealing with alternatives, if it can be shown that at least one Markush
alternative is not novel over the prior art, the question of unity of
invention will be reconsidered by the examiner. Reconsideration does not
necessarily imply that an objection of lack of unity will be raised.

5.121. Can both intermediate and final products be claimed?

The situation involving intermediate and final products is also governed by
Rule 13.2. The term intermediate is intended to mean intermediate or starting
products. Such products have the ability to be used to produce final products
through a physical or chemical change in which the intermediate loses its
identity. Unity of invention should be considered to be present in the context
of intermediate and final products where the following two conditions are
fulfilled:

(i) the intermediate and final products have the same essential structural
element, in that:

a) the basic chemical structures of the intermediate and the final products
are the same, or

(b) the chemical structures of the two products are technically closely
interrelated, the intermediate incorporating an essential structural element
into the final product, and

(ii) the intermediate and final products are technically interrelated, this
meaning that the final product is manufactured directly from the intermediate
or is separated from it by a small number of intermediates all containing the
same essential structural element.

5.122

Unity of invention may also be considered to be present between intermediate
and final products of which the structures are not known - for example, as
between an intermediate having a known structure and a final product the
structure of which is not known, or as between an intermediate of unknown
structure and a final product of unknown structure. In order to satisfy unity
in such cases, there must be sufficient evidence to lead one to conclude that
the intermediate and final products are technically closely interrelated as,
for example, when the intermediate contains the same essential element as the
final product or incorporates an essential element into the final product.

5.123. Must all designated or elected Offices accept an international
application that complies with the unity of invention requirements laid down
in Rule 13 of the PCT?

[Article 2(x)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a2.html),  [Article
27(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a27.html),  [Rule
13](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13.html)  
An international application which complies with the unity of invention
requirements laid down in Rule 13 must be accepted by all the designated and
elected Offices, since Article 27(1) does not allow any national law (as
defined in Article 2(x)) to require compliance with requirements relating to
the contents of the international application different from or additional to
those provided for in the PCT.

5.124. What are the physical requirements for the claims?

[Rule 11](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html),  [Rule
11.4(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html)  
The physical requirements are the same as those for the description as
outlined in paragraph 5.105. Note that the claims must commence on a new
sheet.

5.125. May claims include tables?

[Rule 11.10(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html)  
The claims may include tables if this is desirable in view of the subject
matter involved. In this case, the tables must be included in the text of the
relevant claim; they may not be annexed to the claims nor may reference be
made to tables contained in the description (refer to paragraph 5.109).

5.126. How can obvious mistakes in the claims be rectified?

[Rule 91](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r91.html)  
The procedure for rectification of obvious mistakes is explained in paragraphs
11.033 to 11.044. The omission of an entire sheet of the claims cannot be
rectified without affecting the international filing date (refer to paragraphs
6.025 and 6.026). It is recommended that a request for the rectification of
obvious mistakes in the claims be made only if the mistake is liable to affect
the international search; otherwise, the rectification should be made by
amending the claims (refer to paragraph 5.127).

5.127. Can the claims be amended during the international phase?

[Article 19](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a19.html),  [Article
28](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a28.html),  [Article
34(2)(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a34.html),  [Article
41(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a41.html)  
Yes, the claims may be amended under Article 19 on receipt of the
international search report (refer to paragraphs 9.004 to 9.011); they may
also be amended during international preliminary examination if the applicant
has filed a demand (refer to paragraphs 10.024 and 10.067) and during the
national phase.

THE DRAWINGS

5.128. When is the inclusion of drawings required in the international
application?

[Article 3(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a3.html) [Article
7](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a7.html),  [Rule
7.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r7.html)  
The international application must contain drawings when they are necessary
for the understanding of the invention. Moreover where, without drawings being
actually necessary for the understanding of the invention, the nature of the
invention admits of illustration by drawings, the applicant may include such
drawings and any designated Office may require the applicant to file such
drawings during the national phase.

5.129. What is considered to be a drawing?

[Rule 7.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r7.html)  
Perspectives, exploded views, sections and cross-sections, and details on a
different scale are all considered to be drawings. Drawings also cover flow
sheets and diagrams, such as functional diagrams and graphic representations
of a given phenomenon which express the relationship between two or more
parameters.

5.130

[Rule 11.10](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html)  
Where chemical or mathematical formulae and tables are included in the
description, claims or abstract, they are not considered to be drawings and
are thus not subject to the same requirements as drawings (refer to paragraphs
5.131 to 5.133). However, such graphic forms may be submitted as drawings, in
which case they are subject to the same requirements as drawings.

5.131. How must the drawings be presented?

[Rule 11.10,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html) [Rule
11.11,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html) [Rule
11.13](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html)  
Drawings must be presented on one or more separate sheets. They may not be
included in the description, the claims or the abstract. They may not contain
text matter, except a single word or words when absolutely indispensable.
Rules 11.10 to 11.13 contain detailed requirements as to further physical
requirements of drawings. Any drawing meeting those requirements must be
accepted in the national phase by the designated Offices. Drawings newly
executed according to national standards may not be required during the
national phase if the drawings filed with the international application comply
with Rule 11. A file reference may be indicated on each sheet of the drawings
as for the description (refer to paragraph 5.105).

5.132

[Rule 11.2(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html)  
The drawings must be so presented as to admit of direct reproduction by
photography, electrostatic processes, photo offset and microfilming, in any
number of copies.

5.133

[Rule 11.2(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html) [Rule
11.2(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html) [Rule
11.2(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html) [Rule
11.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html) [Rule
11.5,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html) [Rule
11.6(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html) [Rule
11.12](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html)  
Drawings must be on sheets of A4 paper (29.7 cm x 21 cm) which must be
flexible, strong, white, smooth, non-shiny and durable. The sheets must be
free from creases and cracks; they must not be folded. Each sheet must be
reasonably free from erasures and must be free from alterations, overwriting
and interlineations. Only one side of each sheet may be used. The usable
surface of sheets must not exceed 26.2 cm x 17.0 cm. The sheets must not
contain frames around the usable surface. The minimum margins which must be
observed are: top and left side: 2.5 cm; right side: 1.5 cm; bottom: 1.0 cm.

5.134. Should figures of drawings be arranged in a particular manner?

[Rule 11.10(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html) [Rule
11.13(j)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html)  
All the figures constituting the drawings must be grouped together on a sheet
or sheets without waste of space, but clearly separated from each other.
However, figures should not be separated by lines.

5.135

[Rule 11.10(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html) [Rule
11.13(j)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html)  
As far as possible, all figures of the drawings should be set out upright on
the sheets. Where the drawings cannot be presented satisfactorily in an
upright position, they may be placed sideways, with the tops of the drawings
on the left-hand side of the sheet. Thus, a figure which is broader than it is
high, may be set out so that the bottom of the figure lies parallel to and
along the right-hand side of the sheet. In this case, if other figures are
drawn on the same sheet, they should be set out in the same way, so that all
the figures on a single sheet lie in the same position. Similar considerations
apply to tables and chemical and mathematical formulae (refer to paragraphs
5.107 and 5.109).

5.136

The drawings should contain as many figures as may be necessary to adequately
show the claimed invention. The views may be plan, elevation, section, or
perspective views; detail views of portions or elements, on a larger scale if
necessary, may be used. Exploded views, with the separated parts of the same
figure embraced by a bracket, to show the relationship or order of assembly of
various parts, are permissible. One figure should not be placed upon or within
the outline of another figure.

5.137

Where an invention concerns improvements to details of existing devices and
machines, a general figure may be desirable to indicate where on the device or
machine the improvement is situated, in order to ensure that the drawings are
readily understood. If, for example, the invention relates to the fixing of an
elastic diaphragm in a diaphragm pump, a figure - generally the first - may
represent the entire pump, as improved by the invention, the details of which
will then be given in the other figures. On the other hand, it would be
unnecessary to represent the entire machine comprising this diaphragm, for
example the automobile in which the diaphragm pump circulates the fuel.

5.138

It is sufficient to choose the views which are the most representative and
contain the minimum of hidden parts, so that the object is completely and
unambiguously defined by means of the smallest possible number of views. To
this end, it is sometimes sufficient to replace the various views of an object
by a single perspective view. The simplest view compatible with the desired
result should be chosen.

5.139

[Rule 11.13(i)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html)  
Where figures on two or more sheets form in effect a single complete figure,
the figures on the several sheets must be so arranged that the complete figure
can be assembled without concealing any part of any of the figures appearing
on the various sheets. Partial figures drawn on separate sheets must always be
capable of being linked edge to edge, that is to say, no partial figure may
contain parts of another partial figure. A very long figure may be divided
into several parts placed one above the other on a single sheet. However, the
relationship between the different parts must be clear and unambiguous. It is
therefore recommended that a smaller scale figure be included showing the
whole formed by the partial figures and indicating the positions of the parts
shown.

5.140. How must drawings be numbered?

[Rule 11.7,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html) [Section
207(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s207.html)  
All sheets of drawings must be numbered in the center of either the top or the
bottom of each sheet but not in the margin (as for the sheets of the
description - refer to paragraph 5.106) in numbers larger than those used as
reference signs in order to avoid confusion with the latter. For drawings, a
separate series of numbers is to be used (refer to paragraph 5.012). The
number of each sheet of the drawings must consist of two Arabic numerals
separated by an oblique stroke, the first being the sheet number and the
second being the total number of sheets of drawings. For example, 2/5 would be
used for the second sheet of drawings where there are five sheets in all and
1/1 would be used in the case of a single sheet.

5.141

[Rule 11.13(k),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html) [Rule
49.5(f)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49.html)  
Different figures on the sheets of drawings must be numbered in Arabic
numerals consecutively and independently of the numbering of the sheets and,
if possible, in the order in which they appear. The numbers of the figures
should be preceded by the expression Fig., whatever the language of the
international application. Where a single figure is sufficient to illustrate
the claimed invention, it should not be numbered and the abbreviation Fig.
should not appear. Numbers and letters identifying the figures must be simple
and clear and may not be used in association with brackets, circles, or
inverted commas, except as regards partial figures intended to form one
complete figure, irrespective of whether they appear on one or several sheets.
In this case the complete figure may be identified by the same number followed
by a capital letter (for example, Fig. 7B).

5.142

The different figures should preferably be set out, as far as possible, on
each sheet in ascending numerical order from left to right and from top to
bottom. If one of two figures illustrates on a larger scale a detail from the
other, each figure should be numbered separately, and if possible,
consecutively.

5.143. How should drawings be executed?

[Rule 11.13](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html)  
The drawings must be executed in durable, black, uniformly thick and well-
defined lines and strokes. In all cases, the thickness of the lines and
strokes must take into account the scale, nature, execution and perfect
legibility of the drawing and of the reproductions. All lines in the drawings
must, ordinarily, be drawn with the aid of a drafting instrument, except those
which by their nature do not permit the use of such instruments, for example,
irregular diagrams, ornamental structures and curved reference lines (refer to
paragraph 5.145).

5.144. May lines of different thicknesses be used in the same drawing?

Lines and strokes of different thicknesses may be used in the same drawing
where different thicknesses have a different meaning. One could, for instance,
use:

— a continuous thick line for edging and outlining views and cross-sections;

— a continuous thin line for reference lines (refer to paragraph 5.145 for
further details), hatching, outlining parts of adjoining elements, fictitious
lines of intersection of surfaces connected by curved or rounded edges;

— a continuous thin line drawn freehand for delimiting views, part sections or
interrupted views;

— a thin broken line made up of short dashes for hidden edges and contours;

— a dot-dash thin line for axes and planes of symmetry, extreme positions of
movable elements, in front of a cross-section;

— a thin line terminating in two thick lines for outlines of cross-sections.

5.145. How should reference lines be shown?

Reference lines (also referred to as leading lines), that is, lines between
the reference signs (for example, reference numerals) and the details referred
to, may be straight or curved and should be as short as possible. They must
originate in the immediate proximity of the reference sign and extend to the
feature indicated. Reference lines for certain reference signs may be omitted.
Reference signs of this type, which are not connected to anything, will then
indicate the surface or cross-section on which they are placed. In such cases
the reference sign may be underlined to make it quite clear that the line has
not been left out by mistake. Reference lines must be executed in the same way
as other lines in the drawing (refer to paragraph 5.143).

5.146. May I use arrows in drawings?

Arrows may be used at the end of the reference lines provided that their
meaning is clear. They may indicate a number of points:

(i) a freestanding arrow indicates the entire section towards which it points;

(ii) an arrow touching a line indicates the surface shown by the line looking
along the direction of the arrow;

(iii) arrows may also be used in appropriate cases to show the direction of
movement.

5.147. How are cross-sections to be represented?

[Rule 11.13(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html)  
In making and representing cross-sections, certain conditions must be observed
with regard to the indication and identification of the figures concerned and
how they are to be represented, as more fully explained in paragraphs 5.148
and 5.149.

5.148

Where a figure is a cross-section on another figure, the latter should
indicate the position of the section and may indicate the viewing direction by
arrows at each end. In addition, in order to allow each sectional figure to be
quickly identified, especially where several cross-sections are made on the
same figure, each end of the cross-section line should be marked on the
diagram with the same single Arabic or Roman numeral which identifies the
figure in which the section is illustrated. A cross-section represents that
part of an object which is situated on a cutting surface. In industrial
drawings, the cross-section is that part of the object which is behind the
cutting surface from the point of view of the person looking at it. Cutting
surfaces are generally plane surfaces and if they are not, they must be
defined precisely. Cross-sections must always follow the cutting surface,
whatever it may be.

5.149

A cross-section must be set out and drawn in the same manner as a normal view
whose parts in cross-section are hatched with regularly spaced parallel
oblique strokes, the space between strokes being chosen on the basis of the
total area to be hatched. Hatching should not impede the clear reading of the
reference signs and reference lines. Consequently, if it is not possible to
place reference signs outside the hatched area, the hatching may be broken off
wherever reference signs are inserted. Certain types of hatching may be given
a specific meaning. The hatching should be at a substantial angle to the
surrounding axes or principal lines, preferably 45º. The various parts of a
cross-section of the same item should be hatched in the same manner. The
hatching of juxtaposed different elements should be angled in a different way.
In the case of large areas, hatching can be confined to an edging drawn around
the inside of the outline of the area to be hatched.

5.150. What should be the scale of figures of the drawings?

[Rule 11.13(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html)  
The scale of the figure should be such that all the essential details can be
clearly distinguished in a linear reduction in size to two-thirds. In
exceptional cases, where required, the scale of the drawing may be graphically
represented. Indications such as actual size or scale ½ on the drawings or in
the description, are not permitted, since these lose their meaning with
reproduction in different format.

5.151

[Rule 11.13(g)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html)  
Each element of each figure must be in proportion to each of the other
elements in the figure, except where the use of a different proportion is
indispensable for the clarity of the figure. As a preferred alternative to a
difference in proportion within one figure for the purpose of achieving the
necessary clarity, a supplementary figure should be added giving a larger
scale illustration of the element of the initial figure. In such cases, it is
recommended that the enlarged element shown in the second figure be surrounded
by a finely drawn or dot-dash circle in the first figure pinpointing its
location without obscuring the figure.

5.152. How should numbers, letters, reference signs and like indications be
presented and applied to drawings?

[Rule 11.13(e)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html)  
Numbers, letters and reference signs and any other data given on the sheets of
drawings, such as the numbering of figures, and of the sheets of the drawings,
acceptable text matter, graduations on scales, etc., must be simple and clear,
and not used in association with any brackets, inverted commas, circles or
outlines whatsoever. Signs indicating minutes, seconds or degrees are
permitted. Numbers, letters and reference signs should be laid out in the same
direction as the diagram so as to avoid having to rotate the sheet. Such
numbers, letters and reference signs should not be so placed in the closed and
complex parts of the drawings as to interfere with a thorough comprehension of
the same, and therefore should rarely cross or mingle with the lines. As a
general rule, numbers, letters and reference signs should be placed as closely
as possible to the part in question.

5.153

[Rule 11.13(h)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html)  
A minimum size of 0.32 cm is required for all numbers and letters used on the
drawings so that their reduction in size to two-thirds remains easily legible.
The Latin alphabet should normally be used for letters. The Greek alphabet is
to be accepted, however, where it is customarily used, for example, to
indicate angles, wavelengths, etc.

5.154

[Rule 11.13(l)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html)  
Reference signs are to be used in a manner which is consistent as between the
description, claims and drawings. In particular, reference signs not mentioned
in the description must not appear in the drawings, and _vice versa_. Features
of a drawing should not be designated by a reference sign in cases where the
feature itself has not been described. This situation may arise as a result of
amendments to the description involving the deletion of pages or whole
paragraphs. One solution would be to delete reference signs on the drawing
which have been deleted in the description. Where for any reason a figure is
deleted, all reference signs relating solely to that figure appearing in the
description and claims should also be deleted.

5.155

[Rule 11.13(m)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html)  
The same features, when denoted by reference signs, must, throughout the
international application, be denoted by the same signs. However, where
several variants or embodiments of a claimed invention are described, each
with reference to a particular figure, and where each variant contains
features whose function is the same or basically the same, the features may,
if this is indicated in the description, be identified by reference numbers
made up of the number of the figure to which it relates followed by the number
of the feature, which is the same for all variants, so that a single number is
formed. For example, the common feature “15” would be indicated by “115” in
Fig. 1, while the corresponding feature would be indicated by “215” in Fig. 2,
thereby allowing the individual feature and the figure on which it is to be
considered to be indicated at the same time. Complex cases involving many
pages of drawings may be made easier to read if, when the individual variants
or embodiments are described with reference to particular groups of figures,
the common reference sign is prefixed by the number of the particular variant
or embodiment to which it relates; however, this should, if used, be explained
in the description.

5.156. May drawings contain text matter?

[Rule 11.11](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html)  
The drawings must not contain text matter, except a single word or words when
absolutely indispensable, such as “water”, “steam”, “open”, “closed”, “section
on AB” and in the case of electric circuits and block schematic or flow sheet
diagrams, a few short catch words indispensable for understanding. Significant
amounts of text matter should be avoided in the drawings as this can cause
difficulties not only in understanding but also in translation. Any words used
must be so placed that if translated, they may be pasted over without
interfering with any lines of the drawings.

5.157. May symbols be used in drawings?

[Rule 10.1(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r10.html) [Rule
10.1(e)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r10.html)  
Known devices may be illustrated by symbols which have a universally
recognized conventional meaning and are generally accepted in the art provided
no further detail is essential for understanding the subject matter of the
claimed invention. Other signs and symbols may be used provided that they are
not likely to be confused with existing conventional symbols, that they are
readily identifiable, that is, simple, and providing that they are clearly
explained in the text of the description. Different types of hatching may also
have different conventional meanings as regards the nature of a material seen
in cross-section.

5.158. Is the use of shading permitted?

The use of shading in figures is allowed provided this assists in their
understanding and is not so extensive as to impede legibility. Shading may,
for instance, be used to indicate the shape of spherical, cylindrical, conical
elements, etc. Flat parts may also be lightly shaded. Such shading is allowed
in the case of parts shown in perspective but not for cross-sections. Only
spaced lines may be used for shading, not fully blacked out areas. These lines
must be thin, as few in number as possible and they must contrast with the
rest of the drawings.

5.159. May a photograph or color drawing be presented?

The PCT makes no provision for photographs or color drawings. Nevertheless,
they may be submitted where it is impossible to present in a black and white
drawing what is to be shown (for instance, crystalline structures). Where,
exceptionally, photographs and/or color drawings are submitted, they must be
on sheets of A4 size and respect the minimum margins (refer to paragraph
5.133). While the receiving Office will not necessarily require replacement
sheets where photographs and/or color drawings are submitted, for
international publication purposes, all images will be converted to black and
white (not greyscale). As a result, details may be lost which could impact the
disclosure of the invention in the international application and affect the
processing of the international application in the international and the
national phase. The filing software accepted by some receiving Offices allows
for the specific indication that photographs and/or color drawings are filed
as part of the international application. Such indications will trigger a
notice on the front page of the published international application to
indicate that the original drawings are available on PATENTSCOPE, which may
assist national phase processing in Offices where color drawings are accepted.
However, it will not overcome the need to provide true black and white
drawings to other Offices when required, representing the color images without
adding subject matter.

5.160. May a list of reference signs used in the drawings be included in the
description?

[Rule 11.13(n)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html)  
In the case of international applications dealing with complex subjects and
incorporating a large number of drawings, a separate sheet listing all
reference signs may be included at the end of the description as a part
thereof. This list may take whatever form is appropriate and contain all the
reference signs together with the designation of the features which they
denote. This method could have the advantage of allowing an easier reference
to the meaning of the various reference signs employed and understanding of
the drawings.

5.161. How can obvious mistakes in the drawings be rectified?

[Rule 91](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r91.html)  
The procedure for rectification of obvious mistakes is explained in paragraphs
11.033 to 11.044. The omission of an entire sheet of drawings cannot be
rectified without affecting the international filing date (refer to paragraphs
6.025(i)(b) and 6.026). Changes other than the rectification of obvious
mistakes are considered amendments (refer to paragraph 5.162).

5.162. Can the drawings be amended during the international phase?

[Article 28](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a28.html),  [Article
34(2)(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a34.html),  [Article
41(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a41.html)  
The drawings can be amended during the international phase only if the
applicant files a demand for international preliminary examination (refer to
paragraph 10.001). The drawings can also be amended during the national phase.

5.163

As regards the figure or, exceptionally, figures to accompany the abstract,
refer to paragraph 5.171.

THE ABSTRACT

5.164. What is the use of the abstract?

[Article 3(3)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a3.html),  [Rule
8.3](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r8.html)  
The abstract serves as a scanning tool for the purposes of searching in the
particular art and especially assists the scientist, engineer or researcher in
formulating an opinion on whether there is a need to consult the international
application itself. It merely serves the purpose of technical information and
cannot be taken into account for any other purpose, particularly not for the
purpose of interpreting the scope of the protection sought.

5.165. What content should the abstract normally contain?

[Rule 8.1(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r8.html)  
The abstract should consist of a summary of the disclosure as contained in the
description, the claims, and any drawings. It should indicate the technical
field to which the invention pertains and should be drafted in a way which
allows a clear understanding of the technical problem, the gist of the
solution to that problem through the invention, and the principal use or uses
of the invention. Where applicable, it should also contain the chemical
formula which, among all the formulae contained in the international
application, best characterizes the invention. The abstract should be
primarily related to what is new in the art to which the invention pertains.
WIPO Standard ST.12/A provides more detailed guidance in this respect.

5.166. If the invention is in the nature of a modification to an apparatus,
process, product or composition, what should the abstract contain?

If the invention is in the nature of a modification to an apparatus, process,
product or composition, the abstract should be directed to the technical
disclosure of the modification. If the invention is of a basic nature, the
entire technical disclosure may be new in the art and the abstract should be
directed to the entire disclosure. If an international application relating to
a product, particularly a compound or composition, also contains significant
disclosure of its method of preparation or use, this matter should also be
abstracted. If the disclosure involves alternatives, the abstract should deal
with the preferred alternative and identify the others if this can be done
succinctly; if this cannot be done, it should mention that they exist and
whether they differ substantially from the preferred alternative.

5.167. What should the abstract contain?

Where applicable, and provided the international application contains the
information, the abstract should include at least the following: (1) if the
invention is a machine, apparatus, or system, its organization and operation;
(2) if the invention is an article, its method of making; (3) if the invention
is a chemical compound, its identity and preparation; (4) if the invention is
a mixture, its ingredients; (5) if the invention is a process, the steps.
Extensive mechanical and design details of apparatus should not be given.

5.168. What should the abstract contain in case of chemical inventions for
compounds or compositions?

[Rule 8.1(a)(ii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r8.html)  
With regard particularly to chemical inventions for compounds or compositions,
the general nature of the compound or composition should be given as well as
the use thereof, for example, the compounds are of the class of alkyl benzene
sulfonyl ureas, useful as oral anti-diabetics. Exemplification of a class
should be by a typical example. For processes, the type of reaction, reagents
and process conditions should be stated, generally illustrated by a single
example. Wherever applicable, the chemical formula should be given which,
among all the formulae contained in the international application, best
characterizes the invention.

5.169. What should the abstract not contain?

[Rule 8.1(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r8.html)  
The abstract must not contain statements on the alleged merits or value of the
claimed invention or on its speculative application.

5.169A. How long should the abstract be?

[Rule 8.1(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r8.html)  
The abstract must be as concise as the disclosure permits. Phrases should not
be used which can be implied, such as This disclosure concerns, The invention
defined by this disclosure and This invention relates to. If it is drafted in
English, it should preferably be in the range of 50 to 150 words. The same
applies to the translation in English if the abstract is drafted in a language
other than English.

In order to provide guidance to applicants in preparing abstracts when they
are drafted in languages other than English, the International Bureau has
analyzed the abstracts of past international applications. That analysis shows
that, on average, if the abstract drafted in one of the following languages of
publication falls into the corresponding range of number of words or
characters, when it is translated into English, that translation will likely
be within the range of 50 to 150 words: Arabic, 35 to 110 words; Chinese, 80
to 240 characters; French, 50 to 150 words; German, 40 to 120 words; Japanese,
100 to 300 characters; Korean, 30 to 130 words; Portuguese, 50 to 150 words;
Russian, 35 to 110 words; and Spanish, 50 to 150 words.

5.170. When should a figure be suggested to accompany the abstract?

[Rule 3.3(a)(iii),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r3.html) [Rule
8.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r8.html)  
Where the international application contains drawings, the applicant should
indicate, in the check list of the request, the number of the figure in the
drawings which the applicant suggests should be published with the abstract.

5.171. Which figure should accompany the abstract?

The figure illustrating the abstract must be the figure which best
characterizes the claimed invention and must be chosen from the drawings
accompanying the international application. Only one figure should generally
be indicated. The abstract may exceptionally be illustrated by more than one
figure where necessary information cannot be otherwise conveyed. A figure
containing significant amounts of text matter should be avoided as text can be
difficult to read when reduced to the size of the front page drawing to
accompany the abstract. In addition, large amounts of text in the figure to
accompany the abstract can impede the understanding of the invention given
that translated text in a figure is placed below or at the side of the
drawing. If none of the figures is found useful for the understanding of the
abstract, no figure need be indicated in the check list. The figure or figures
that will accompany the abstract at the time the international application is
published may not be included in the abstract.

5.171A. Should the abstract contain reference signs?

[Rule 8.1(d)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r8.html)  
The abstract should be clear and easy to understand. Where the international
application contains drawings, each main technical feature mentioned in the
abstract and illustrated by a drawing should be followed by a reference sign,
placed between parentheses. The reference numerals used in the abstract must
correspond to those indicated in the relevant figures.

5.172. How must the abstract be presented?

[Section 207](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s207.html),  [Rule
11](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html)  
The abstract must be presented on a separate sheet which must appear after the
claims and be numbered accordingly (refer to paragraph 5.012). It must comply
with the same physical requirements as those applicable for the description
(refer to paragraph 5.105).

5.173. What happens if the abstract is missing or defective?

[Article 14(1)(a)(iv)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a14.html),
[Article 14(1)(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a14.html),
[Rule 26.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26.html) [Rule
38.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r38.html) [Rule
38.3](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r38.html)  
Where the receiving Office finds that the abstract is missing, it invites the
applicant to furnish it within a time limit of two months from the date of the
invitation to correct. The international application can be considered
withdrawn if no abstract is furnished to the receiving Office within the time
limit fixed. Where the receiving Office has not invited the applicant to
furnish an abstract, the International Searching Authority establishes one.
The same applies where the abstract does not comply with the requirements
outlined in the preceding paragraphs (also refer to paragraph 7.022). Where
the abstract is established by the International Searching Authority, the
applicant may submit comments on it within one month from the date of mailing
of the international search report.

5.174. Can an abstract be corrected even if the International Searching
Authority has already approved it?

[Rule 38.3](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r38.html)  
The applicant is entitled, until the expiration of one month from the date of
mailing of the international search report, to submit to the International
Searching Authority proposed modifications of the abstract. It will be up to
the Authority to decide whether to modify the abstract accordingly.

OTHER FORMAL REQUIREMENTS

5.175. What other formal requirements does the international application have
to meet?

[Article 21(6)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a21.html),  [Rule
9](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r9.html)  
The international application may not contain matter contrary to morality or
public order, disparaging statements or obviously irrelevant or unnecessary
matter. When the receiving Office, the International Searching Authority, the
Authority specified for supplementary search or the International Bureau note
lack of compliance with the prescriptions of Rule 9, the Office or Authority
may suggest that the applicant correct the international application
accordingly. For the procedure to correct a defect under Rule 9, refer to
paragraph 6.052.

5.176

[Rule 10](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r10.html)  
There are certain requirements as to the technical terminology and signs to be
used (metric system, etc.). They are specified in Rule 10. The use of such
prescribed technical terminology will be accepted by all designated Offices.

5.177. Are there any physical requirements for the international application?

[Article 3(4)(ii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a3.html),
[Article 14(1)(a)(v)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a14.html),
[Rule 11](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html)  
The international application must comply with certain physical requirements,
such as requirements concerning fitness for reproduction, the paper to be
used, the manner of writing (generally typewritten or printed), etc. The
details are spelled out in Rule 11. They are, in general, very similar to the
requirements applied by the major Patent Offices for national applications
(and by the Eurasian Patent Office and the European Patent Office for Eurasian
and European patent applications, respectively).

5.178. Can I indicate a name or address in the request form in characters
other than those of the Latin alphabet?

[Rule 4.16](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html)  
Where any name or address is written in characters other than those of the
Latin alphabet (for example, Chinese, Cyrillic or Japanese), it must be
transliterated or translated into English. For details, refer to Rule 4.16.

5.179. In how many copies must an international application be filed?

[Rule 11.1(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html) [Rule
11.1(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html) [Rule
21](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r21.html)  
An international application, and, where applicable, a translation of the
international application, must be filed in one, two or three copies,
depending on the requirements of the receiving Office. Annex C contains the
relevant information. Also refer to Rule 21.

5.180

[Article 12](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a12.html),  [Rule
21.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r21.html) [Rule
22.1(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r22.html) [Rule
23.1(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r23.html) [Section
305](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s305.html)  
It is to be noted that there must eventually be three copies of every
international application: one is kept by the receiving Office (the home
copy), one is transmitted by the receiving Office to, and is kept by, the
International Bureau (the record copy), and one is transmitted by the
receiving Office to, and kept by, the International Searching Authority (the
search copy). If less than the required number of copies is filed by the
applicant (refer to paragraph 5.179), the receiving Office is responsible for
preparing the additional copies and may charge a fee to the applicant.

5.181. In which cases must I furnish a translation of the international
application?

[Rule 12](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r12.html),  [Rule
12.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r12.html) [Rule
21.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r21.html) [Rule
22.1(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r22.html) [Rule
23.1(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r23.html) [Section 305
_bis_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s305bis.html)  
Where the international application was filed in a language which is accepted
by the receiving Office but not by the International Searching Authority which
is to carry out the international search, the applicant has to furnish a
translation of the international application (refer to paragraphs 6.013 to
6.020 for details). In that case, the receiving Office forwards a copy of the
international application in the language of filing (the “record copy”) to the
International Bureau, a copy (the “search copy” to the International Searching
Authority and retains one copy (the “home copy”). When the receiving Office
receives the translation of the international application, it forwards one
copy to the International Bureau (the “record copy - translation (Rule
12.3)”), keeps one copy for its files (the "home copy - translation (Rule
12.3)”) and forwards the third copy, together with a copy of the request (the
“search copy - translation (Rule 12.3)”) to the International Searching
Authority. If the translation is filed by the applicant in fewer than the
required number of copies (refer to paragraph 5.179), the receiving Office is
responsible for preparing the additional copies and may charge a fee to the
applicant.

5.182

[Rule 12.4,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r12.html) [Rule
21.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r21.html) [Rule
22.1(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r22.html) [Section 305
_bis_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s305bis.html)  
Where the international application was filed in a language which is accepted
by the receiving Office and by the International Searching Authority which is
to carry out the international search but which is not also in a language of
publication, the applicant has to furnish a translation of the international
application (refer to paragraphs 6.013 to 6.023 for details). In that case,
the receiving Office forwards a copy of the international application in the
language of filing (the “record copy”) to the International Bureau, a copy
(the “search copy”) to the International Searching Authority and retains one
copy (the “home copy”). When the receiving Office receives the translation of
the international application, it forwards one copy to the International
Bureau (the “record copy - translation (Rule 12.4)”) and keeps one copy for
its files (the “home copy - translation (Rule 12.4)”). No copy of the
translation of the international application will therefore be forwarded to
the International Searching Authority by the receiving Office. If the
translation is filed by the applicant in fewer than the required number of
copies (refer to paragraph 5.179), the receiving Office is responsible for
preparing the additional copy and may charge a fee to the applicant.

5.183

[Rule 62.1(i),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r62.html) [Section
420](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s420.html)  
Where the International Preliminary Examining Authority is not part of the
same national Office or intergovernmental organization as the International
Searching Authority, the International Bureau will, promptly upon receipt of
the international search report or, if the demand was received after the
international search report, promptly upon receipt of the demand, send a copy
of the international application and the international search report together
with a copy of the written opinion of the International Searching Authority to
the International Preliminary Examining Authority. Where neither the language
in which the international application was filed nor the language in which the
international application is published is accepted by the International
Preliminary Examining Authority that is to carry out the international
preliminary examination, the applicant must furnish with the demand a
translation of the international application into a language which is both a
language accepted by that Authority and a language of publication. No such
translation is required where the International Searching Authority and the
International Preliminary Examining Authority are part of the same national
Office or intergovernmental organization. In cases where, instead of the
international search report, a declaration under Article 17(2)(a) was issued,
references in the preceding sentences to the international search report shall
be considered references to the said declaration.

FEES

5.184. What fees are due in respect of an international application?

[Article 3(4)(iv)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a3.html)  
There are three kinds of fee which must be paid in connection with every
international application.

[Rule 14](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r14.html)  
(i) The transmittal fee is fixed by, and accrues to, the receiving Office for
the performance of its tasks in connection with the receipt and checking of
the international application, and for the transmittal of copies of it to the
International Bureau and the International Searching Authority.

[Rule 16.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r16.html)  
(ii) The “search fee” is fixed by, and accrues to the benefit of, the
International Searching Authority for the carrying out of the international
search and the establishment of the international search report and the
written opinion of the International Searching Authority.

[Rule 15.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r15.html) [Rule
96](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r96.html)  
(iii) The “international filing fee” is fixed in the Schedule of Fees annexed
to the PCT Regulations and accrues to the International Bureau for the
performance of various tasks, including the publication of the international
application and, where applicable, the issuance on behalf of the International
Searching Authority of the international preliminary report on patentability
(Chapter I of the PCT) and the communication of various notifications to the
applicant, the receiving Office, the International Searching Authority, the
International Preliminary Examining Authority, and the designated and elected
Offices.

5.185. To whom are the fees payable?

[Rule 14.1(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r14.html) [Rule
15.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r15.html) [Rule
16.1(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r16.html)  
All three kinds of fee referred to in paragraph 5.184 are payable to the
receiving Office with which the international application is filed. The
receiving Office then transfers the international filing fee to the
International Bureau and the search fee to the International Searching
Authority or, in accordance with Annex G of the Administrative Instructions,
to the International Bureau for further transfer to the beneficiary Office.

5.186. What is the currency in which the fees are payable?

[Rule 14.1(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r14.html) [Rule
15.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r15.html) [Rule
16.1(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r16.html)  
Generally, the fees referred to in paragraph 5.184 are payable in the currency
of the country in which the receiving Office is located. Complete information
on this question is contained in Annex C and, for the search fee, in Annex D.

5.187. What are the amounts of the fees?

[Rule 14.1(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r14.html) [Rule
15.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r15.html) [Rule
16.1(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r16.html)  
Annex C and, for the search fee, Annex D indicate the amounts of the fees
referred to in paragraph 5.184. Where the applicant has the choice between two
or more International Searching Authorities (refer to paragraph 7.002), the
amount of the search fee depends on which International Searching Authority is
chosen and indicated in Box No. VII of the request form (refer to paragraphs
5.072 and 5.093) and in the fee calculation sheet (refer to paragraph 5.093).

5.188. What fee reductions are available?

An applicant who is a natural person and who is a national of and resides in a
State that is listed as being a State whose per capita gross domestic product
is below 25, 000 US dollars (according to the most recent 10-year average per
capita gross domestic product figures at constant 2005 US dollars values
published by the United Nations), and whose nationals and residents who are
natural persons have filed less than 10 international applications per year
(per million population) or less than 50 international applications per year
(in absolute numbers) according to the most recent five-year average yearly
filing figures published by the International Bureau is entitled, in
accordance with the Schedule of Fees, item 5, to a reduction of 90% of the
international filing fee. In addition, an applicant who qualifies for the 90%
reduction in the international filing fee will not have to pay the transmittal
fee in respect of an international application filed with the International
Bureau as receiving Office. The same applies (i.e. the 90% reduction in the
international filing fee and no transmittal fee to be paid if filing is made
with the International Bureau as receiving Office) for an applicant, whether a
natural person or not, who is a national of and resides in a State that is
listed as being classified by the United Nations as a least developed country.
(For a list of States whose nationals and residents are eligible for the fee
reduction, refer to <https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/docs/fee-reduction-
january.pdf>). However, it should be noted that the applicant is only entitled
to the reduction if, at the time of filing the international application, the
applicant is or all applicants are the true and only owner(s) of the
application and under no obligation to assign, grant, convey or license the
rights in the invention to another party which is not eligible for the fee
reduction. If there are several applicants, each must satisfy one or the other
of the above-mentioned criteria. If the applicant is or all applicants are
entitled to the reduction, this reduction applies on the basis of the
indications of name, nationality and residence given in Boxes Nos. II and III
of the request, without a need for a specific request to be made. The fee
reduction will be available even if one or more of the applicants are not from
PCT Contracting States, provided that each of them satisfies the above-
mentioned criteria and that at least one of them is a national or resident of
a PCT Contracting State and thus is entitled to file an international
application. Information about PCT Contracting States whose nationals and
residents are entitled to a reduction of 90% of the international filing fee,
is contained in Annex C and, in particular Annex C(IB). As far as other States
are concerned, inquiries should be addressed to the International Bureau. It
is to be noted that, if both the reduction for electronic filing of an
international application and the 90% reduction of the international filing
fee are applicable, the 90% reduction is calculated after the reduction for
electronic filing of an international application.

5.189. Is there any fee reduction for applications filed in electronic form?

[Rule 89 _bis_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r89bis.html),  [Rule
89 _ter_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r89ter.html),  [Section
702](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s702.html),  [Section
707](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s707.html)  
An applicant who files an international application is entitled to a reduction
in the international filing fee provided that the international application is
filed in electronic form with a receiving Office which is prepared to accept
the filing of international applications in electronic form and in compliance
with Part 7 and Annex F of the Administrative Instructions or the basic common
standard.

The reduction is 100 Swiss francs or the equivalent where the request and the
text of the description, claims and abstract are not in character coded
format, 200 Swiss francs or the equivalent where the request is in character
coded format and the text of the description, claims and abstract is not in
character coded format and is 300 Swiss francs or the equivalent where the
request and the text of the description, claims and abstract are in character
coded format.

5.190

The international search fee as well as the preliminary examination fee
payable to the Austrian Patent Office, the European Patent Office (EPO) and
the Spanish Patent and Trademark Office, are reduced by 75% under certain
conditions (refer to Annexes D and E).

5.191. When are the fees due?

[Rule 14](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r14.html),  [Rule
15.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r15.html) [Rule
16.1(f)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r16.html)  
All fees referred to in paragraph 5.184 may be paid at the same time, and, if
they are paid upon filing of the international application with the receiving
Office, no problems can arise. However, all fees can be paid as much as one
month from the date of receipt of the international application by the
receiving Office. The dates on which payments are deemed to have been received
are determined by the receiving Office. The latter applies the same rules as
are applied in the case of payments for national applications.

5.192. What happens if the amounts of the fees are changed?

[Rule 15.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r15.html) [Rule
16.1(f)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r16.html)  
Where the amount of the international filing fee or of the search fee, in the
currency in which the fee is payable, changes, the new amount must be paid as
from the date of its entry into force. However, where the amount of any such
fee changes between the date on which the international application was
received and the date of payment, the amount payable is the amount applicable
on the date of receipt of the international application. This system allows
the applicant to pay all the fees for the international application, within
the one-month period, on the basis of the amounts applicable on the date on
which the application was filed with the receiving Office.

5.193. What happens if the fees are not paid or not paid in full?

[Rule 16 _bis_.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r16bis.html) [Rule
16 _bis_.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r16bis.html)  
Where, within the time they are due, the applicant has not paid any or all of
the fees, the receiving Office invites the applicant to pay the missing
amount, together with a late payment fee, within a time limit of one month
from the date of the invitation. If the applicant pays the amount (including
the late payment fee) specified in the invitation, the deficiency in payment
has no consequences for the international application. The amount of the late
payment fee is 50% of the missing amount or, if that 50% is less than the
transmittal fee, an amount equal to the transmittal fee; but the amount of the
late payment fee may not exceed the amount of 50% of the international filing
fee referred to in item 1 of the Schedule of Fees, not taking into account any
fee for each sheet of the international application in excess of 30 sheets
(refer to Annex C).

5.194

Where, within the time by which they are due, the applicant has not paid any
or all of the fees, any payment relating to the missing amount must be
considered to have been received within the time by which those fees are due,
if the payment is received by the receiving Office before that Office sends
the invitation, referred to in the preceding paragraph, to pay the missing
amount.

5.195

[Article 14(3)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a14.html),  [Rule
16 _bis_.1(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r16bis.html) [Rule
27.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r27.html) [Rule
29.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r29.html) [Section
321](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s321.html)  
If the transmittal fee, the international filing fee and the search fee are
not paid in the prescribed currency and within the prescribed time limits,
including the time limit set in the invitation from the receiving Office to
pay the missing amount together with the late payment fee (refer to paragraph
5.193), the international application is considered withdrawn, and the
receiving Office promptly informs the applicant accordingly. However, any
payment must be considered to have been received before the expiration of the
applicable time limit if it is received by the receiving Office before that
Office makes the applicable declaration, under Article 14(3), that the
international application is considered withdrawn.

5.196

If the amounts paid do not cover the transmittal fee (if applicable), the
international filing fee and the search fee (if applicable), the moneys paid
will be allocated as specified by the applicant or, in the absence of such
specification, as prescribed by the Administrative Instructions by the
receiving Office, which promptly notifies the applicant accordingly.

5.197. In which case can I ask for a refund of the transmittal fee?

[Rule 15.4,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r15.html) [Rule
16.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r16.html)  
There is no rule under the PCT concerning the possibility of asking for a
refund of the transmittal fee. The search fee and the international filing fee
are refunded where, due to prescriptions concerning national security, the
international application is not treated as such, or where the receiving
Office refuses to accord an international filing date to the international
application under Article 11(1). Such refusal occurs, generally speaking,
where the international application is defective in certain respects (refer to
paragraph 6.005). The receiving Office will also refund the international
filing fee or the search fee to the applicant if the international application
is withdrawn or considered withdrawn before the transmittal of the record copy
to the International Bureau or the transmittal of the search copy to the
International Searching Authority, as the case may be.

5.198. In which case can I ask for the refund of the international search fee?

[Rule 16.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r16.html) [Rule
41.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r41.html)  
Most International Searching Authorities will refund part or all of the search
fee if the international application is withdrawn or considered withdrawn
after transmittal of the search copy but before the start of the international
search (refer to Annex D). Where the International Searching Authority must,
under Rule 41.1(i), or may, under Rule 41.1(ii), take into account the results
of the earlier search when carrying out the international search (also refer
to paragraph 5.073), in accordance with Rule 16.3, the International Searching
Authority must refund the search fee to the extent and under the conditions
provided for in the agreement under Article 16(3)(b). International Searching
Authorities are free to decide the extent and conditions for such search fee
reductions.

5.199

For refunds or reductions of fees in the national phase, refer to National
Phase, paragraph [4.007](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=pctnp&doc-lang=en&doc-type=guide#_4.007) and National Chapters
(Summaries).

##  CHAPTER 6: PROCESSING OF THE INTERNATIONAL APPLICATION BY THE RECEIVING
OFFICE

GENERAL

6.001. What are the main procedural steps at the receiving Office?

The main procedural steps that any international application goes through at
the receiving Office are the following:

[Article 10](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a10.html)  
(i) the international application and the related fees are received by the
receiving Office;

[Article 11(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a11.html),
[Article 14(1)(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a14.html)  
(ii) the international application is checked by the receiving Office to
determine whether it meets the requirements prescribed by the PCT as to the
language, form and contents of international applications (the checks
performed by the receiving Office are of a formal nature and do not go into
the substance of the invention);

[Article 11(2)(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a11.html),
[Article 14(1)(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a14.html),
[Rule 20.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule
20.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule
26.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26.html)  
(iii) where the checks made by the receiving Office show that the
international application does not meet certain requirements as to fees,
language, form and contents, that Office invites the applicant to furnish the
necessary corrections;

[Article 11(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a11.html),
[Article 11(2)(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a11.html),
[Rule 20.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html)  
(iv) where - possibly after correction (refer to paragraphs 6.024 to 6.053) -
the checks made by the receiving Office show that the international
application meets the requirements prescribed for that purpose by the PCT, an
international filing date is accorded to the international application by the
receiving Office;

[Article 12](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a12.html),  [Rule
22](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r22.html),  [Rule
23](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r23.html)  
(v) copies of the international application, its translation, where
applicable, and other related documents are transmitted by the receiving
Office to the International Searching Authority and to the International
Bureau so that they may carry out the procedural steps for which they are
responsible in the further processing of the international application.

6.002. [Deleted]

6.003. How does the international application reach the receiving Office?

[Rule 89 _bis_.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r89bis.html) [Rule
92.4](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r92.html)  
The international application may be deposited with or mailed to the receiving
Office, or filed online (e.g.) if the receiving Office offers such a service.
It may also be filed by other means of rapid communication, notably by
facsimile machine, provided that the receiving Office places such facilities
at the disposal of applicants and that the original is furnished within 14
days, if so required by the receiving Office (refer to Annexes B). The
requirements in relation to filing the international application and any
subsequent documents by facsimile machine are explained in more detail in
paragraphs 11.067 to 11.070.

6.004. Is the international application treated as confidential by the
receiving Office?

[Article 30](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a30.html)  
Yes, it is. Third parties are not permitted to have access to the
international application, unless requested or authorized by the applicant,
before the date of international publication. Designated Offices are, however,
permitted to publish the fact that they have been designated, together with a
limited amount of bibliographic data. For further details as to
confidentiality, refer to Article 30 and paragraphs 11.072 to 11.074.

INTERNATIONAL FILING DATE

6.005. What are the conditions that must be fulfilled for the international
application to be entitled to an international filing date?

[Article 11(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a11.html),  [Rule
20.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule
20.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html)  
The receiving Office must accord an international filing date to the
international application if it finds that the following conditions are
fulfilled:

(i) the applicant does not obviously lack, for reasons of residence or
nationality, the right to file an international application with the receiving
Office (refer to paragraphs 5.008, 5.020 and 5.023);

(ii) the international application is in the prescribed language (refer to
paragraph 6.006);

(iii) the international application contains at least the following elements:

(a) an indication that it is intended as an international application,

(b) a request which constitutes the designation of a Contracting State bound
by the PCT on the international filing date (under Rule 4.9(a) - refer to
paragraph 5.052),

(c) the name of the applicant (for this purpose it is sufficient if the name
of the applicant is indicated in a way which allows his/her identity to be
established, even if the name is misspelled, or the given names are not fully
indicated, or, in the case of legal entities, the indication of the name is
abbreviated or incomplete),

(d) a part which on the face of it appears to be a description,

(e) a part which on the face of it appears to be a claim or claims.

6.006. Not all parts of my international application are in the same language.
Will the receiving Office accord an international filing date to my
international application?

[Article 11(1)(ii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a11.html),
[Article 11(1)(iii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a11.html),
[Rule 12.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r12.html) [Rule
20.1(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule
20.1(d)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html)  
For the purposes of according an international filing date, the requirement
that the international application be in a prescribed language is met, in most
receiving Offices, if the description and claims (but not necessarily the
other elements of the international application) are in a language accepted by
the receiving Office under Rule 12.1(a) and (c) (refer to Rule 20.1(c) and
paragraph 5.013). If any of the other elements of the international
application are not in a language accepted by the receiving Office, they may
be corrected later without affecting the international filing date (refer to
paragraphs 6.032 and 6.034). A translation will need to be furnished by the
applicant in respect of any international application which is filed in a
language which is not a language accepted by the International Searching
Authority which is to carry out the international search and/or a language of
publication; refer to paragraphs 6.013 to 6.020). In certain Offices, however,
Rule 20.1(c) is incompatible with the applicable national law. For as long as
that incompatibility continues, that Rule will not apply for those Offices;
all elements of an international application filed with those Offices as
receiving Office must therefore comply with the language requirements of Rule
12.1 before an international filing date can be accorded (refer to Annex C for
details).

6.007. [Deleted]

6.008. What date is accorded as the international filing date?

[Article 11(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a11.html),
[Article 11(2)(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a11.html),
[Rule 20.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule
20.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html)  
The reply to this question depends on whether the requirements for according
an international filing date (refer to paragraph 6.005) were fulfilled on the
date on which the international application was received by the receiving
Office, or, pursuant to Rule 20.6, considered to have been received (refer to
paragraph 6.026 to 6.031), or - following correction of defects in relation to
those requirements - on a later date. The international filing date will, in
the former case, be the date on which the international application was
received by the receiving Office and, in the latter case, the date on which
the correction was received by the receiving Office. Naturally, any correction
has to comply with some conditions; in particular it has to be filed within a
certain time limit. More is said about this in paragraph 6.025. Where all the
sheets pertaining to the same international application are not received on
the same day by the receiving Office, refer to paragraph 6.026.

6.009. Does non-payment, incomplete payment or late payment of fees influence
the international filing date?

[Article 11(3)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a11.html),
[Article 11(4)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a11.html),
[Article 14(3)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a14.html),  [Rule
27](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r27.html)  
No, it does not, however, those defects will eventually lead the receiving
Office to declare that the international application is considered withdrawn
(refer to paragraphs 5.195 and 5.196). Although an international application
which has not been accorded an international filing date and an international
application which is considered withdrawn are both excluded from further
processing in the international phase, an international application which
fulfills the requirements necessary for it to be accorded an international
filing date may be invoked as a priority application under the Paris
Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property (if the conditions laid
down by that Convention are fulfilled) even where the international
application is considered withdrawn under the PCT (for non-payment of fees or
other reasons).

6.010. Can the receiving Office refuse to treat an international application
as such for reasons of national security?

[Article 27(8)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a27.html),  [Rule
22.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r22.html) [Section
330](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s330.html)  
Each Contracting State is free to apply measures deemed necessary for the
preservation of its national security. For example, each receiving Office has
the right not to treat an international application as such and not to
transmit the record copy to the International Bureau and the search copy to
the International Searching Authority. Compliance with national security
prescriptions where the international application is filed with the
International Bureau as receiving Office will not be checked by the
International Bureau; such compliance is the applicant’s responsibility. Where
an international filing date has been accorded but national security
considerations prevent transmittal of the record copy, the receiving Office
must so declare to the International Bureau before the expiration of 13, or at
the latest 17, months from the priority date.

6.011. How does the applicant know whether his/her application has been
accorded an international filing date or that the application is not treated
as an international application or is considered to have been withdrawn?

[Rule 20.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule
20.4(i),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule
20.5(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule 20.5
_bis_(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule
22.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r22.html) [Rule
29.1(ii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r29.html)  
Where the receiving Office accords an international filing date to the
international application, it promptly notifies the applicant of that date and
of the international application number; where it decides that the
international application is not to be treated as an international application
(because of a negative determination for lack of compliance with Article 11,
or because national security considerations prevent it from being treated as
such) or is to be considered withdrawn, it promptly notifies the applicant
accordingly.

6.012. Can an international filing date once accorded be “taken away”?

[Article 14(4)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a14.html),  [Rule
29.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r29.html) [Rule
29.4,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r29.html) [Rule
30.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r30.html) [Rule 82
_ter_.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r82ter.html) [Section
312](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s312.html)  
If, after having accorded an international filing date, the receiving Office
finds that it should not have accorded it, the international application is
considered withdrawn and the receiving Office so declares and promptly
notifies the applicant. If the International Bureau or the International
Searching Authority finds that an international filing date should not have
been accorded, it calls the relevant facts to the attention of the receiving
Office. However, such a finding may validly occur only during the four months
following the international filing date and must be preceded by a notification
to the applicant of the intention to make the declaration which should, where
applicable, also include an invitation to confirm the incorporation of missing
elements in accordance with Rule 20.6(a). The applicant has the right to
submit arguments within two months from the notification or, where applicable,
confirm the incorporation by reference of missing elements. For the
rectification of errors made by the receiving Office in according the
international filing date, refer to Rule 82 _ter_.1 and the National Phase,
paragraph [6.028](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=pctnp&doc-lang=en&doc-type=guide#_6.028).

TRANSLATION OF INTERNATIONAL APPLICATIONS

6.013. When is a translation of the international application required?

[Rule 12.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r12.html)  
Every receiving Office must accept, for the purpose of filing international
applications, at least one language which is both a language of publication
and a language accepted by the International Searching Authority, or, if
applicable, by at least one of the International Searching Authorities,
competent for the international searching of international applications filed
with that receiving Office. In addition, any receiving Office may accept one
or more other languages for the purpose of filing international applications.
A translation of the international application is required when the language
in which the international application is filed is a language which is not a
language of publication and/or a language accepted by the International
Searching Authority which is to carry out the international search.

6.014. What are the translation requirements if the international application
is filed in a language which is not accepted by the International Searching
Authority?

[Rule 12.3](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r12.html)  
Where the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority that is to carry out the
international search, the applicant must furnish, to the receiving Office, a
translation of the international application into a language which is both a
language accepted by that Authority and a language of publication. Moreover,
unless the international application was filed in a language of publication
(refer to paragraph 9.017), the language into which the international
application is translated must also be a language in which international
applications may be filed with the receiving Office concerned. For any
sequence listing part of the description, a translation of the language-
dependent free text in the sequence listing may be required if not already
provided in a language accepted by the International Searching Authority as
filed. The translation must be provided in a new sequence listing containing
the language-dependent free text in the accepted language. The applicant may
either replace the language-dependent free text with the translation or if
permitted by the receiving Office, add the translation such that the new
sequence listing contains the language-dependent free text in two languages
(one must be English). (Concerning translation of the request, refer to
paragraph 6.019).

6.015. What is the time limit for furnishing a translation of my international
application where the application is filed in a language which is not accepted
by the International Searching Authority?

The translation of the international application must be furnished to the
receiving Office within one month from the date on which the international
application was received by that Office. Where, by the time the receiving
Office notifies the applicant of the international application number and
international filing date, the applicant has not furnished the required
translation, the receiving Office will, preferably together with that
notification, invite the applicant to furnish the required translation either
within the time limit of one month from the date on which the international
application was received by the receiving Office, or, in the event that the
required translation is not furnished within that time limit, to furnish it
and to pay, where applicable, the late furnishing fee (refer to paragraph
6.017), within one month from the date of the invitation or two months from
the date of receipt of the international application by the receiving Office,
whichever expires later.

6.016. Will my application be withdrawn in case that I do not furnish a
translation or pay the late furnishing fee?

Where the receiving Office has sent to the applicant an invitation to furnish
the translation and, where applicable, pay the late furnishing fee, and the
applicant has not done so within the applicable time limit, the international
application will be considered withdrawn and the receiving Office will so
declare. However, any translation and any payment which are received by the
receiving Office before that Office makes the declaration that the
international application is considered withdrawn, and before the expiration
of 15 months from the priority date, will be considered to have been received
before the expiration of the applicable time limit.

6.017. What is the amount of the late furnishing fee for translations?

[Rule 12.3(e)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r12.html)  
The late furnishing fee which any receiving Office may collect for
translations which are furnished after the expiration of the time limit of one
month from the date on which the international application is received by the
receiving Office, is equal to 25% of the international filing fee referred to
in item 1 of the Schedule of Fees, not taking into account any fee for each
sheet of the international application in excess of 30 sheets.

6.018. What are the translation requirements if the abstract or text matter in
the drawings of the international application are in a language which is
different from the language of the description and claims?

[Rule 26.3 _ter_(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26.html)  
If the abstract or text matter in the drawings of the international
application is in a language which is different from the language of the
description and claims, then the receiving Office will invite the applicant to
furnish a translation of the abstract or the text matter of the drawings into
the language in which the international application is to be published.
However, no such invitation will be issued if the abstract or text matter in
the drawings is in the language in which the international application is to
be published, or if a translation of the international application is required
because the language in which the international application was filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority which is to perform the
international search.

6.019. What are the translation requirements if the request is in a language
which is not a language of publication accepted by the receiving Office for
the purpose of filing the request?

[Rule 12.1(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r12.html) [Rule 26.3
_ter_(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26.html)  
Whatever the language in which the description and claims are filed, the
request must always be filed in a language of publication accepted by the
receiving Office for the purposes of filing the request. If the request is in
a language which does not fulfill this requirement, the receiving Office
invites the applicant to file a translation that complies with it.

6.020. What are the translation requirements if the international application
is filed in a language which is accepted by the International Searching
Authority, but is not a language of publication?

[Rule 12.4,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r12.html) [Rule
48.3](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r48.html)  
If the international application is filed in a language which is not a
language of publication but is a language accepted by the International
Searching Authority which is to carry out the international search, the
applicant must furnish to the receiving Office a translation of the
international application into a language of publication which the receiving
Office accepts for that purpose. For any sequence listing part of the
description, a translation of the language-dependent free text in the sequence
listing may be required if not already provided in a language of publication
as filed and no translation was required under Rule 12.3(a) for the purposes
of the international search. The translation must be provided in a new
sequence listing containing the language-dependent free text in a language of
publication. The applicant may either replace the language-dependent free text
with the translation or if permitted by the receiving Office, add the
translation such that the new sequence listing contains the language-dependent
free text in two languages (one must be English). (Concerning the translation
of the request, refer to paragraph 6.019).

6.021. What is the time limit for furnishing a translation of my international
application where the application is filed in a language which is accepted by
the International Searching Authority, but is not a language of publication?

The translation of the international application must be furnished to the
receiving Office within 14 months from the priority date. Where the applicant
has not furnished the required translation within the applicable time limit,
the receiving Office will invite the applicant to furnish the required
translation, and to pay, where applicable, the late furnishing fee (refer to
paragraph 6.023), within 16 months from the priority date.

6.022. Will my application be withdrawn in case that I do not furnish a
translation or pay the late furnishing fee?

Where the receiving Office has sent to the applicant an invitation to furnish
the translation and, where applicable, pay the late furnishing fee, and the
applicant has not done so within the applicable time limit, the international
application will be considered withdrawn and the receiving Office will so
declare. However, any translation and any payment which are received by the
receiving Office before that Office makes the declaration that the
international application is considered withdrawn, and before the expiration
of 17 months from the priority date, will be considered to have been received
before the expiration of the applicable time limit.

6.023. What is the amount of the late furnishing fee for translations?

The late furnishing fee which any receiving Office may collect for
translations which are furnished after the expiration of the time limit of 14
months from the priority date, is equal to 25% of the international filing fee
referred to in item 1 of the Schedule of Fees, not taking into account any fee
for each sheet of the international application in excess of 30 sheets.

CORRECTION OF DEFECTS AND INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE OF MISSING ELEMENTS OR
PARTS, OR CORRECT ELEMENTS OR PARTS IN CASE THEY HAVE BEEN ERRONEOUSLY FILED

6.024. What defects in the international application may be corrected and
within what time limits?

The following paragraphs attempt to give general answers to those questions in
the characteristic cases of possible defects.

6.025. What defects influence the international filing date?

(i) Where the receiving Office finds that the international application does
not comply with the requirements for according an international filing date -
in other words:

[Article 11(1)(i)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a11.html)  
(a) that the applicant obviously lacks, for reasons of residence and
nationality, the right to file an international application with the receiving
Office (but also refer to paragraphs 6.035 and 6.036);

[Article 11(1)(iii)(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a11.html)  
(b) that the international application does not contain an indication that it
is intended as an international application;

[Article 11(1)(iii)(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a11.html)  
(c) that the international application does not contain a request which
constitutes the designation of all Contracting States bound by the PCT on the
international filing date (underRule 4.9(a) - refer to paragraph 5.052);

[Article 11(1)(iii)(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a11.html)  
(d) that the international application does not contain the name of the
applicant or does not contain at least the minimum indications concerning the
name of the applicant which are indicated in paragraph 6.005(iii)(c);

[Article 11(1)(iii)(d)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a11.html),
[Article 11(1)(iii)(e)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a11.html)  
(e) that the international application does not contain a part which, on the
face of it, appears to be a description and a part which, on the face of it,
appears to be a claim or claims;

[Article 11(1)(ii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a11.html),
[Rule 19.4,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r19.html) [Rule
20.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule
20.6,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule
20.7](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html)  
the receiving Office invites the applicant to correct the defect. The time
limit for filing the correction is two months from the date of the invitation
to correct. If the correction is made within the time limit, the date of
receipt of the correction becomes the international filing date; otherwise,
the application is not treated as an international application (but also refer
to paragraphs 6.035 and 6.036 in relation to the applicant’s residence and
nationality, and paragraphs 6.013 to 6.020 for applications filed in a
language which is accepted by the receiving Office but which is not both a
language accepted by the International Searching Authority which is to carry
out international searching, and a language of publication). Where the defect
concerns item (i)(e) above, the receiving Office will invite the applicant to
confirm in accordance with Rule 20.6 that the missing element concerned was
incorporated by reference under Rule 4.18 (refer to paragraphs 6.027 to
6.031), in which case it may be possible to retain the earlier date as the
international filing date. Where the required elements of the international
application are not in a language accepted by the receiving Office, that
Office will transmit the international application to the International Bureau
as receiving Office under Rule 19.4 (noting that the International Bureau as
receiving Office is prepared to accept international applications filed in any
language; refer to paragraph 6.034 and Annex C).

[Article 14(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a14.html),  [Rule
20.5,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule 20.5 _bis_
,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule
20.7](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html)  
(ii) Where the receiving Office finds that parts of the description, claims,
all drawings or parts thereof are, or appear to be, missing or that the
description, claims, parts of the description or claims, all drawings or parts
thereof are or appear to be erroneously filed, it notifies the applicant
accordingly and invites the applicant to correct the defect or else, where
appropriate, to confirm in accordance with Rule 20.6 that the missing part or
correct element or part was incorporated by reference under Rule 4.18 (refer
to paragraph 6.027 to 6.031 for details). The time limit for furnishing such
missing parts or correct elements or parts is two months from the date of the
invitation. If no invitation is issued and the applicant notices and wishes to
correct a defect, this is also permitted within a time limit of two months
from the date on which papers were first received by the receiving Office. If
the missing parts or correct elements or parts are furnished within that time
limit, the date of their receipt becomes the international filing date, unless
the applicant is able to confirm in accordance with Rule 20.6 that the missing
part or correct element or part concerned was incorporated by reference under
Rule 4.18 (refer to paragraphs 6.027 to 6.031), in which case it may be
possible to retain the earlier date as the international filing date. Where
missing drawings referred to in the international application are not
furnished within the time limit, any references to drawings in the
international application are considered non-existent and the international
filing date remains as originally accorded. However, where the international
filing date is corrected to a later date, any priority claim will be
considered void, for the purposes of the procedure under the PCT, if the
accorded international filing date falls outside the two month period after
the expiration of the priority period of the priority claim concerned (refer
to paragraphs 5.060 and 6.038).

[Rule 20.5(e),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule 20.5
_bis_(e)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html)  
(iii) Where the international filing date has been corrected, the applicant
may, in a notice submitted to the receiving Office within one month from the
date of mailing of the notification of later submitted elements or parts (Form
PCT/RO/126), request that the missing part or the correct element or part be
disregarded in order to preserve the date on which papers were first received
as the international filing date and, where applicable, to retain the priority
claim (Rule 20.5(e) or 20.5 _bis_(e)). The applicant will be notified of the
decision made by the receiving Office on whether the international filing date
has been restored (Form PCT/RO/129).

6.026. What happens if all sheets of the international application are not
received on the same day?

[Rule 20.3(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule
20.5(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule
20.5(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule
20.5(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule 20.5
_bis_(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule 20.5
_bis_(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule 20.5
_bis_(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule
20.7](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html)  
The receipt of further sheets after an invitation to correct has been sent
under Article 11(2)(a) or 14(2) (refer to paragraph 6.025) generally results
in the date of receipt of those further sheets being accorded as the
international filing date, provided that they are received within the
applicable time limit under Rule 20.7, and unless the applicant is able to
include these later submitted sheets by way of incorporation by reference
(refer to paragraphs 6.027 to 6.031). If no invitation to correct has been
sent but all the sheets relating to the same purported international
application (apart from the abstract) are not received on the same day by the
receiving Office, and the applicant has not confirmed the incorporation by
reference of those later submitted sheets, the Office corrects the request by
marking on it the date on which the papers completing the international
application were received, and that later date is accorded as the
international filing date, provided that the later sheets were received within
two months from the date on which sheets were first received. Each sheet is
marked with the date on which it was actually received. In case those later
submitted sheets are to correct erroneously filed sheets, and the applicant
has not confirmed the incorporation by reference of those later submitted
sheets, the erroneously filed sheets concerned are removed from the
application. The absence or late receipt of the abstract does not, of itself,
result in correction of the date marked on the request or in the according of
a later international filing date.

6.027. Can missing or correct pages be added to an international application
without affecting the international filing date?

[Rule 19.4(a)(iii),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r19.html) [Rule
20.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule
20.5,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule 20.5 _bis_
,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule
20.8](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html)  
This is possible under certain circumstances, but the resulting international
filing date will not be recognized in some Contracting States (refer to
paragraph 6.031). Under Rule 4.18, where an element of the international
application referred to in Article 11(1)(iii)(d) or (e) or a part of the
description, claims or drawings referred to in Rule 20.5(a), or an element or
part of the description, claims or drawings referred to in Rule 20.5 _bis_(a)
is not otherwise contained in the international application but is completely
contained in the earlier application of which priority is claimed on the date
on which one or more elements referred to in Article 11(1)(iii) were first
received by the receiving Office, it is possible to incorporate by reference
these missing or correct elements or parts into the international application.
Such incorporation by reference will have the effect that the elements or
parts which have been incorporated by reference will be considered to have
been received on the date on which one or more elements referred to in Article
11(1)(iii) were first received. As a result, the international filing date
would remain the date when one or more elements referred to in Article
11(1)(iii) were first received (provided that all other Article 11
requirements for the according of a filing date are met). These procedures do
not apply to missing pages if the receiving Office has notified the
International Bureau under Rule 20.8(a) that any of Rules 20.3(a)(ii) and
(b)(ii), 20.5(a)(ii) and (d), and 20.6 are not compatible with its national
law. Moreover, these procedures do not apply to correct pages if the receiving
Office has notified the International Bureau under Rule 20.8(a-_bis_) that any
of Rules 20.5 _bis_(a)(ii) and (d) are not compatible with its national law.
Such a receiving Office will therefore neither invite nor accept a
confirmation of the incorporation by reference. Instead, the receiving Office
would apply the above described correction procedure (paragraph 6.025). A list
of Offices which have notified the International Bureau under Rule 20.8(a)
and/or 20.8(a-_bis_) and which will therefore not accept the incorporation by
reference of missing elements or parts can be found on WIPO’s website at
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html>. If the need
to incorporate certain missing or correct elements or parts becomes apparent
after the international application has been filed, the applicant may request
the receiving Office to transmit the international application to the
receiving Office of the International Bureau under Rule 19.4(a)(iii), which
does accept the incorporation by reference of missing or correct elements or
parts.

6.028. How should missing or correct elements or parts be incorporated by
reference into the international application?

[Rule 4.18,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule
20.6](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html)  
A statement of incorporation by reference referred to in Rule 4.18 must have
been included in the international application on the date when one or more
elements referred to in Article 11(1)(iii) are first received by the receiving
Office. Such a statement is automatically included if Form PCT/RO/101 is used
in paper or electronically. If such a statement was not contained in the
request at the time of filing, it can only be added to the request if it was
otherwise contained in, or submitted with, the international application on
the date of filing. Furthermore, one or several priority claims to earlier
applications which completely contain the missing or correct element or part
must have been made in the international application at the time of filing.
Adding such priority claims under Rule 26 _bis_.1(a) would not be sufficient.
If these requirements have been met, the applicant should confirm the
incorporation by reference by way of a written notice to the receiving Office
within the time limit indicated below. Such notice should be accompanied by:

— a sheet or sheets embodying the entire element or part as contained in the
earlier application;

— where the applicant has not already complied with the requirements of Rule
17.1(a), (b) or b-_bis_ , a copy of the earlier application as filed;

— where Rule 20.6(a)(iii) applies, a translation or translations of the
earlier application; and

— in the case of a missing or correct part, an indication as to where the part
is contained in the earlier application and, where applicable, in any
translation of the earlier application.

6.029. What is the time limit for confirming the incorporation by reference of
missing or correct elements or parts?

[Rule 20.7](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html)  
Where no invitation by the receiving Office has been sent to submit missing or
correct elements or parts (Form PCT/RO/103 or PCT/RO/107), the time limit to
confirm is two months from the date on which papers were first received by the
receiving Office. Where such an invitation has been issued, the time limit to
confirm is two months from the date of mailing of this invitation. If this
time limit expires after the expiration of 12 months from the filing date of
the earliest application, the priority of which is claimed, the receiving
Office will draw this circumstance to the attention of the applicant (as a
warning that, if the missing or correct elements or parts are not confirmed to
have been incorporated by reference and the international filing date is thus
corrected to a date after the expiration of the priority period, the
correction of the international filing date may result in the loss of the
right of priority; the same applies, even if the missing or correct elements
or parts are confirmed to have been incorporated by reference, with regard to
those States which do not apply the provisions concerning incorporation by
reference (refer to paragraph 6.031)). For missing elements, where the
applicant has neither submitted a correction under Article 11(2) nor a notice
under Rule 20.6(a) confirming the incorporation by reference of missing
elements referred to in Article 11(1)(iii)(d) or (e) prior to the expiration
of this two-month time limit, any such correction or notice received by the
receiving Office after the expiration of that time limit, but before it has
sent a notification under Rule 20.4(i) (Form PCT/RO/104) to the applicant, is
considered to have been received within the time limit (Rule 20.7(b)).

6.029A. What happens to the erroneously filed element or part if the
incorporation by reference of the correct element or part is confirmed?

[Rule 20.5 _bis_(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html)
[Section 309(b)(iv)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s309.html)  
Where a correct element or part is considered to have been contained in the
purported international application on the date on which one or more elements
referred to in Article 11(1)(iii) were first received by the receiving Office
under Rule 20.6(b), the erroneously filed element or part concerned will
remain in the application. The receiving Office will mark those erroneously
filed sheets as “ERRONEOUSLY FILED (RULE 20.5 _bis_)” and move those sheets to
the end of the corresponding element of the purported international
application. The receiving Office will transmit the erroneously filed sheets
to the International Bureau and they will be published as part of the
international application.

6.030. What are the consequences if the requirements for the incorporation by
reference are not complied with?

[Rule 20.3(b)(i),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule
20.4,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule
20.5(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule
20.5(e),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule 20.5
_bis_(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule 20.5
_bis_(e)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html)  
If not all of the requirements for the incorporation by reference are
fulfilled (for example, if a missing or correct element or part is not
entirely contained in the earlier application), the international application
will be assigned a later international filing date (the date of receipt of the
missing or correct element or part, to the extent that all other requirements
of Article 11(1) are complied with on that date) (refer to paragraphs 6.025
and 6.026). The applicant may, however, request that the missing part or
correct element or part be disregarded, in accordance with Rule 20.5(e) or
20.5 _bis_(e) (refer to paragraph 6.025(iii)). In this case, the international
filing date will be reinstated and the missing part or correct element or part
will be considered not to have been submitted.

6.031. What are the effects of the successful incorporation of missing or
correct elements or parts on designated or elected Offices?

[Rule 20.8(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule 82
_ter_.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r82ter.html)  
In most Contracting States, the elements or parts will be treated as if they
had actually been contained in the international application as originally
filed. Designated and elected Offices may, to a limited extent, review
decisions by receiving Offices which have allowed incorporation by reference
(Rule 82 _ter_.1(b)). If the designated or elected Office finds that: the
applicant did not comply with the obligation to furnish a priority document;
the statement of incorporation was missing or not submitted with the request;
no written notice confirming incorporation by reference was submitted; no
required translation was furnished; or the element or part in question was not
completely contained in the priority document; then the designated or elected
Office may treat the international application as if the international filing
date had been accorded on the basis of the date on which the sheets containing
the missing or correct elements or parts were submitted, but only after giving
the applicant the opportunity to make observations on this outcome and/or to
request that, at least, the missing parts or the correct elements or parts
which had been furnished be disregarded, in accordance with Rule 82
_ter_.1(d).

However, those designated Offices which have submitted notifications of
incompatibility under Rule 20.8(b) and/or (b-_bis_), may treat the
international application as if the international filing date had been
accorded on the basis of the date on which the sheets containing the missing
or correct elements or parts, as the case may be, were submitted, but also
only after having given the applicant the opportunity to make observations on
this outcome and/or to request that, at least, the missing parts or the
correct elements or parts which had been furnished be disregarded, pursuant to
Rule 20.8(c).

6.032. What defects do not influence the international filing date?

Where the receiving Office finds that

[Article 14(1)(a)(i)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a14.html),
[Rule 2.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r2.html) [Rule
4.1(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule
4.15](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html)  
(i) the international application is not signed (or, in the cases referred to
in paragraph 5.091, does not bear a seal; also refer to paragraph 11.027 for
cases where an applicant refuses to sign or cannot be found or reached);

[Article 14(1)(a)(ii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a14.html),
[Rule 4.4,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule
4.5](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html)  
(ii) the international application does not contain the name of the applicant
presented in the prescribed way (other than those referred to in paragraph
6.005(iii)(c), for which case refer to paragraph 6.025(i)(d)), or the
prescribed indications in respect of at least one of the applicants - these
indications are specified in Rules 4.4 and 4.5; they include, in particular,
the applicant’s address, residence and nationality;

[Article 14(1)(a(iii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a14.html),
[Rule 4.3](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html)  
(iii) the international application does not contain a title (that is, a title
for the claimed invention);

[Article 14(1)(a)(iv)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a14.html),
[Rule 8](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r8.html)  
(iv) the international application does not contain an abstract;

[Article 14(1)(a)(v)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a14.html),
[Rule 11](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html),  [Rule
26.3](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26.html)  
(v) the international application and, where applicable, the translation of
the international application, does not comply, to the extent provided for in
the Regulations, with the prescribed physical requirements (the physical
requirements are specified in detail in Rule 11; compliance with them must be
checked only to the extent that such compliance is necessary for the purpose
of reasonably uniform international publication, and no international
application will be considered withdrawn for lack of such compliance if it
complies to the extent necessary for the purpose of reasonably uniform
international publication);

[Article 3(4)(i)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a3.html),  [Rule
12.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r12.html) [Rule 26.3
_ter_(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26.html)  
(vi) any element of the international application, other than the description
and claims, is not in an admitted language (refer to paragraphs 5.013,
6.005(ii) and 6.006);

[Article 14(1)(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a14.html),
[Rule 26.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26.html) [Rule
26.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26.html) [Rule 26.2
_bis_(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26.html) [Rule 26.3
_ter_(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26.html) [Rule
26.5,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26.html) [Rule
29.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r29.html)  
the receiving Office invites the applicant to correct the defect (however,
regarding international applications which are filed in a language which is
accepted by the receiving Office but require translation, refer to paragraphs
6.013 to 6.020). The time limit for filing the correction is two months from
the date of the invitation. If the correction is made within the time limit
(including any extension - refer to paragraph 6.037), the international filing
date remains the date on which the international application was received by
the receiving Office; otherwise, the international application is considered
withdrawn. In certain Offices, however, the provisions of Rule 26.3 _ter_(a)
for correction of elements not in an accepted language are incompatible with
the applicable national law. For as long as that incompatibility continues,
that Rule will not apply for those Offices; all elements of an international
application filed with those Offices as receiving Office must therefore comply
with the language requirements of Rule 12.1 before an international filing
date can be accorded (also refer to paragraph 6.006 and refer to Annex C for
details).

6.033. [Deleted]

6.034. What happens if the application is filed in a language which is not
accepted by the receiving Office?

[Rule 19.4(a)(ii),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r19.html) [Rule
19.4(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r19.html) [Rule
19.4(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r19.html)  
If the international application is filed in a language which is not a
language accepted by the national (or regional) Office with which it is filed,
but is in a language accepted by the International Bureau as receiving Office,
that international application will be considered to have been received by
that Office on behalf of the International Bureau as receiving Office. In
fact, the International Bureau as receiving Office accepts international
applications filed in any language (refer to Annex C). In such a case, the
international application will be date-stamped by the national (or regional)
Office concerned and promptly transmitted to the International Bureau (unless
this is prevented by national security prescriptions). That transmittal may be
subjected to the payment of a fee equal to the transmittal fee (refer to
paragraph 5.184(i) and Annex C), but other fees paid will be refunded by the
national (or regional) Office to the applicant and the applicable fees will
then have to be paid to the International Bureau as receiving Office (refer to
Annex C). The international application so transmitted will be considered to
have been received by the International Bureau as receiving Office on the date
on which it was received by the national (or regional) Office, except that,
for the purposes of calculating the time limits for paying the fees due on
filing the international application to the competent receiving Office, the
date of receipt of the international application is considered to be the date
on which the international application was actually received by the
International Bureau as receiving Office.

6.035. What happens if the applicant is a resident or national of a
Contracting State but files the application with a “non-competent” receiving
Office?

[Rule 19.4(a)(i),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r19.html) [Rule
19.4(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r19.html) [Rule
19.4(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r19.html)  
If the international application is erroneously filed with a national (or
regional) Office which acts as a receiving Office under the Treaty by an
applicant who is a resident or national of a Contracting State, but that
Office is not competent under Rule 19.1 or 19.2 (having regard to the
applicant’s residence and nationality) to receive the international
application, the international application will be considered to have been
received by the Office with which it was filed on behalf of the International
Bureau as receiving Office (refer to paragraphs 5.008 and 5.009). In such a
case, the international application will be date-stamped by the national (or
regional) Office concerned and promptly transmitted to the International
Bureau (unless this is prevented by national security prescriptions). That
transmittal may be subjected by the national Office to the payment of a fee
equal to the transmittal fee (refer to paragraph 5.184(i) and Annex C), but
other fees paid will be refunded by the national Office to the applicant and
the applicable fees will then have to be paid to the International Bureau as
receiving Office (refer to Annex C (IB)). The international application so
transmitted will be considered to have been received by the International
Bureau as receiving Office on the date on which it was received by the
national (or regional) Office, except that, for the purposes of calculating
the time limits for paying the fees due on filing the international
application, the date of receipt of the international application is
considered to be the date on which the international application was actually
received by the International Bureau as receiving Office.

6.036. May the applicant correct indications of residence and nationality?

[Article 11(1)(i)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a11.html),
[Article 14(1)(a)(ii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a14.html),
[Rule 4.5,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Section
329](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s329.html)  
If the indications of the applicant’s residence and nationality as stated in
the request do not support the applicant’s right to file an international
application (refer to paragraphs 5.020, 5.023 and 6.005(i)), that is, if the
applicant appears not to be (or, where there are two or more applicants, none
of the applicants appears to be) a resident or national of a Contracting
State, there is _prima facie_ a defect under Article 11(1)(i) and the
receiving Office issues an invitation accordingly to correct that defect
(refer to paragraph 6.025(i)(a)). The applicant may be able to show that
he/she actually had, on the date on which the international application was
received by the receiving Office, the right to file an international
application with that receiving Office. In such a case, the applicant should
submit evidence to the receiving Office accordingly, together with a proposed
correction of the indications concerning his/her residence and/or nationality.
If the receiving Office is satisfied, on the basis of that evidence, of the
applicant’s right to file the international application, the invitation to
correct the defect under Article 11(1)(i) will be considered to be an
invitation to correct a defect under Article 14(1)(a)(ii) and Rule 4.5 in the
prescribed indications concerning the applicant’s residence and/or
nationality, and the indications may be corrected accordingly. If such a
correction is made, no defect will be considered to exist under Article
11(1)(i), and the defect will thus not prevent the accordance of the actual
date of receipt of the international application as the international filing
date. Note, however, that the United States Patent and Trademark Office as
receiving Office has stated that it will not apply the procedure outlined
above.

6.037. Can time limits to correct certain defects be extended?

[Rule 26.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26.html)  
The time limit of two months for the correction of defects under Article 14(1)
(refer to paragraph 6.032) may be extended by the receiving Office. The
receiving Office may extend the time limit _ex officio_ or at the request of
the applicant at any time - even after the time limit fixed in the invitation
has expired - before a decision is taken on whether the applicant has
submitted the correction within the time limit and whether or not the
international application so corrected is to be considered withdrawn. On the
other hand, the time limits fixed by the receiving Office for the correction
of defects under Article 11 or Article 14(2) (refer to paragraph 6.025) and
for the payment of missing or underpaid fees under Rule 16 _bis_ (refer to
paragraphs 5.193 and 5.195) may not be extended.

6.038. Can defects in priority claims be corrected?

[Rule 26 _bis_.1(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26bis.html)
[Rule 26 _bis_.2(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26bis.html)
[Rule 91](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r91.html)  
Any defective priority claim may be corrected and any missing priority claim
added by a notice which may be submitted to the receiving Office or the
International Bureau. The time limit for correcting or adding a priority claim
is 16 months from the priority date or, where the correction or addition would
cause a change in the priority date, 16 months from the priority date as so
changed, whichever 16 month period expires first, provided that a notice
correcting or adding a priority claim may in any event be submitted until the
expiration of four months from the international filing date. If a correction
of a priority claim is received before the receiving Office or the
International Bureau, as the case may be, declares the priority claim void
(refer to paragraph 6.043) and not later than one month after the expiration
of the applicable time limit, it is considered to have been received before
the expiration of that time limit. To correct a priority claim, any indication
relating to that priority claim may be changed, added or deleted. It should be
noted that an obvious mistake in priority claims may be rectified under Rule
91 within a time limit of 26 months from the priority date provided that the
rectification of the mistake would not cause a change in the earliest priority
date.

6.039

Where the applicant has made a request for early publication of the
international application, any notice to correct or add a priority claim
received by the receiving Office or the International Bureau after that
request was made will be considered not to have been submitted, unless that
request is withdrawn before the technical preparations for international
publication have been completed.

6.040. The priority claim in my international application has been corrected
which results in a new priority date. How will upcoming time limits be
calculated?

[Rule 26 _bis_.1(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26bis.html)  
Where the correction or addition of a priority claim causes a change in the
priority date, any time limit which is computed from the previously applicable
priority date and which has not already expired will be computed from the
priority date as so changed.

6.041. Can the applicant be invited to correct defects in a priority claim?

[Rule 26 _bis_.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26bis.html)  
Where the receiving Office or, if the receiving Office fails to do so, the
International Bureau, finds in relation to a priority claim that;

(i) the international application has an international filing date which is
later than the date on which the priority period expired and that no request
for restoration of the right of priority has been submitted;

(ii) the priority claim does not comply with the requirements of Rule 4.10
(refer to paragraph 5.057); or

(iii) any indication in a priority claim is not the same as the corresponding
indication appearing in the priority document;

the receiving Office or the International Bureau, as the case may be, will
invite the applicant to correct the priority claim.

6.042. The filing date of my international application is outside the priority
period of 12 months. Will the receiving Office invite me to correct the
priority claim?

[Rule 26 _bis_.2(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26bis.html)
[Rule 26 _bis_.3](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26bis.html)  
Where the defect consists of the fact that the filing date of the
international application is outside the priority period but is within two
months from the date on which the priority period expired, the receiving
Office also informs the applicant of the possibility of submitting a request
for the restoration of the right of priority in accordance with Rule 26
_bis_.3 (refer to paragraphs 5.062 to 5.069), except where the receiving
Office has notified the International Bureau under Rule 26 _bis_.3(j) of the
incompatibility of Rule 26 _bis_.3(a) to (i) with the national law applied by
that Office.

6.043. I did not respond to an invitation from the receiving Office to correct
my priority claim. Will the priority claim be considered void?

[Rule 26 _bis_.2(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26bis.html)  
If the applicant fails to respond to an invitation from the receiving Office
or the International Bureau to correct a priority claim before the expiration
of the time limit for doing so, that priority claim will, for the purposes of
the procedure under the Treaty, be considered void and the receiving Office or
the International Bureau, as the case may be, will so declare and inform the
applicant accordingly. However, a priority claim will not be considered void
only because the indication of the number of the earlier application is
missing, an indication in the priority claim is not the same as the
corresponding indication appearing in the priority document, or the
international application has an international filing date which is later than
the date on which the priority period expired, provided that the international
filing date is within two months of that date.

6.044

[Rule 26 _bis_.2(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26bis.html)
[Rule 26 _bis_.2(e)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26bis.html)  
Where the receiving Office or the International Bureau has made a declaration
that a priority claim will be considered void, for the purposes of the
procedure under the PCT, or where the priority claim has only not been
considered void because Rule 26 _bis_.2(c) applies (refer to last sentence of
paragraph 6.043), the International Bureau will publish, together with the
international application, information concerning the priority claim, as well
as any information submitted by the applicant concerning such priority claim
which is received by the International Bureau prior to the completion of the
technical preparations for international publication. Where the applicant
wishes to correct or add a priority claim but the time limit to do so under
Rule 26 _bis_.1 has expired, the applicant may, prior to the expiration of 30
months from the priority date and subject to the payment of a special fee
(refer to Section 113(c) of the Administrative Instructions), request the
International Bureau to publish information concerning the matter.

6.045. Can defects in declarations referred to in Rule 4.17 be corrected? Can
declarations be added?

[Rule 26 _ter_.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26ter.html)  
Any defective declaration may be corrected and any new (missing) declaration
may be added by a notice submitted to the International Bureau by the
applicant, either in response to an invitation to correct (refer to paragraph
6.046) or on his/her own initiative. The time limit for correcting or adding a
declaration is 16 months from the priority date. Any correction or addition
which is received by the International Bureau after that time limit is
considered to have been received on the last day of the time limit if it
reaches the International Bureau before the technical preparations for
international publication have been completed.

6.046. Which are the defects in declarations made under Rule 4.17 in respect
of which the applicant may be invited to submit a correction?

[Rule 26 _ter_.2(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26ter.html)  
Where the receiving Office or the International Bureau finds that any
declaration contained in the request appears to be defective or incomplete,
the receiving Office or the International Bureau, as the case may be, may
invite the applicant to correct the declaration within the time limit referred
to in paragraph 6.045. The kinds of defects which may give rise to an
invitation are, for example, the fact that a declaration does not contain the
standardized wording as prescribed, or that the blank spaces have not been
filled in with names, dates, etc., furthermore, in respect of the declaration
of inventorship for the purposes of the designation of the United States of
America, that it is not signed as prescribed.

6.047. How should a correction or addition of a declaration referred to in
Rule 4.17 be presented?

[Section 216](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s216.html),  [Section
317](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s317.html)  
Any correction or addition of a declaration must be made by way of a notice
consisting of the corrected or added declaration itself accompanied by a
letter explaining the correction or addition. Such notice should be submitted
directly to the International Bureau in all cases, even if that notice is in
response to an invitation issued by the receiving Office. Any notice
nevertheless submitted to the receiving Office will be date stamped by that
Office and transmitted to the International Bureau.

6.048

[Section 214(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s214.html)  
In the case of a corrected declaration, the applicant must submit a
replacement sheet, using the relevant Box (amongst Boxes Nos. VIII (i) to
(v)). In the case of an added declaration, the applicant may either use the
relevant sub-box mentioned above or a blank sheet of paper. Any corrected or
added declaration of inventorship for the purposes of the designation of the
United States of America should be signed and dated by the inventor and should
be entitled "Supplemental declaration of inventorship (Rules 4.17(iv) and 51
_bis_.1(a)(iv)".

6.049. What happens when the applicant fails to correct a declaration referred
to in Rule 4.17?

[Rule 48.2(b)(iv)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r48.html)  
The International Bureau will publish declarations, either as originally
filed, or as corrected, whether or not they comply with Rule 4.17.
Furthermore, an indication about the fact that declarations were made will be
included in the front page of the published international application.

6.050. What happens where the International Bureau receives a correction or
addition of a declaration referred to in Rule 4.17 after the applicable time
limit?

[Rule 26 _ter_.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26ter.html)
[Section 419(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s419.html)  
Where the International Bureau receives a correction or addition of a
declaration after the applicable time limit (refer to paragraph 6.045), it
will notify the applicant accordingly. It does not publish that declaration,
or communicate that declaration to the designated Office(s), but informs the
applicant that any such declaration should be submitted directly to the
designated Office(s) concerned. In the case of a declaration of inventorship
signed by at least one of the inventors, the International Bureau will return
the declaration to the applicant.

6.051. Is the receiving Office the only authority which may note any of the
above defects during the international phase?

[Rule 28](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r28.html)  
If, in the opinion of the International Bureau, the international application
is not signed as provided in the Regulations by at least one of the
applicants, or does not contain the name of the applicant presented in the
prescribed way, or the prescribed indications in respect of at least one of
the applicants, or does not comply to the extent provided in the Regulations
with the prescribed physical requirements, the International Bureau, brings
such defects to the attention of the receiving Office. Unless that Office
believes that there is no defect, it must then invite the applicant to correct
it, within a time limit of two months from the date of the invitation (refer
to paragraph 6.032).

6.052. How should a correction be presented?

[Rule 26.4,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26.html) [Rule
92.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r92.html)  
The correction must generally be filed in the form of one or more replacement
sheets incorporating the correction and accompanied by a letter. The letter
accompanying a replacement sheet must explain the differences between the
replacement sheet and the one it replaces. Correction by letter without
replacement sheets is possible only for corrections of the request where the
correction is of such a nature that it can be transferred from the letter to
the request or other part of the record copy without any adverse effect on the
clarity and the direct reproducibility of the sheet onto which the correction
is to be transferred. As to the signature and other requirements of such
letters, refer to Rule 92.1

6.053. Does a correction entail the payment of a fee?

Both the request for and the making of any correction are free of charge.
There is also no fee for the extension of a time limit for correction (refer
to paragraph 6.037).

6.054. Can the applicant appeal or file a petition against an unfavorable
decision of the receiving Office?

The PCT does not expressly provide for any appeal or petition during the
international phase. However, practice has shown that receiving Offices
reconsider their decisions on petition, and that some national courts or
appeal boards have accepted appeals against decisions taken by national (or
regional) Offices in their capacity as receiving Offices. However, the latter
possibility, even where the applicant is successful in obtaining a favorable
revision of the decision of the receiving Office, may remain without effect in
the States designated in the international application, particularly when the
applicant has not performed the acts required under Article 22(1), 39(1)(a) or
25 within the applicable time limit.

6.055

[Article 25](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a25.html),  [Rule
29.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r29.html) [Rule
51](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51.html)  
The PCT provides for the review by designated Offices of any decision of the
receiving Office refusing to accord an international filing date or declaring
that the international application is considered withdrawn. (For details of
the procedure, including the time limit for requesting such review, refer to
National Phase, paragraphs [6.018](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-
doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctnp&doc-lang=en&doc-type=guide#_6.018) to
[6.021](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctnp&doc-
lang=en&doc-type=guide#_6.021).)

6.056. Can failure to meet a time limit in the proceedings before the
receiving Office or a delay in furnishing documents to that Office be excused?

[Article 24(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a24.html),
[Article 48(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a48.html),  [Rule
82 _bis_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r82bis.html)  
The PCT provides that any Contracting State must, as far as that State is
concerned, excuse, for reasons allowed by the national law, any delay in
meeting any time limit. Moreover, any Contracting State may, as far as it is
concerned, excuse for other reasons any delay in meeting any time limit.
Finally, any designated Office may maintain the effect of an international
application (refer to paragraphs 5.003 to 5.007), even where the decision of
the receiving Office to the effect that the international application, or the
designation of the State concerned, is considered withdrawn is found to be
correct. (For details, refer to National Phase, paragraph
[6.021](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctnp&doc-
lang=en&doc-type=guide#_6.021).)

RECORD COPY AND SEARCH COPY

6.057. How does the record copy reach the International Bureau?

[Article 12(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a12.html),
[Article 12(3)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a12.html),
[Article 22(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a22.html),
[Article 24(1)(ii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a24.html),
[Article 24(1)(iii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a24.html),
[Rule 22.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r22.html) [Rule
22.3](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r22.html)  
What are the consequences if it does not reach the International Bureau within
the prescribed time limit? The record copy (refer to paragraph 5.180), which
incidentally is, for the purposes of the procedure under the PCT, considered
the true copy of the international application, must reach the International
Bureau in time because, if the record copy has not been received by that
Bureau within the prescribed time limit, the international application is
considered withdrawn. However, no international application is considered
withdrawn in such a case without the applicant having been informed beforehand
(refer to paragraph 6.058). Failure to transmit the record copy does not
relieve the applicant of the obligation to enter the national phase before the
designated Offices within the applicable time limit (refer to National Phase,
paragraphs [6.022](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=pctnp&doc-lang=en&doc-type=guide#_6.022) to
[6.027](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctnp&doc-
lang=en&doc-type=guide#_6.027)).

6.058. How does the International Bureau monitor the receipt of the record
copy?

[Rule 20.2(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule
22.1(e)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r22.html)  
The International Bureau, once informed by the receiving Office of the
international application number and of the international filing date,
monitors the receipt of the record copy. If the International Bureau has not
received the record copy within 13 months from the priority date, it urges the
receiving Office to send it. If, one month later, the record copy has still
not been received, the International Bureau notifies the applicant of the
fact. The applicant can then ask the receiving Office either to transmit the
record copy or to issue – and this must be done free of charge – a certified
copy of the international application which the applicant can directly
transmit to the International Bureau. Only after the expiration of three
months from the above-mentioned notification from the International Bureau to
the applicant may the International Bureau make the finding that no record
copy has been received within the prescribed time limit. Thus the applicant
will always have been warned and offered the possibility of taking care of the
transmittal of the record copy himself/herself before any loss of rights can
occur. The certification of a copy of the international application must be
made free of charge in such a case, and may be refused only in certain cases
(for instance where national security considerations prevent the international
application from being treated as such; for details, refer to Rule 22.1(e)).

6.059. How does the search copy reach the International Searching Authority?

[Article 12(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a12.html),  [Rule
12.1(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r12.html) [Rule
23.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r23.html) [Rule
25.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r25.html)  
The search copy (refer to paragraph 5.180) is transmitted by the receiving
Office to the International Searching Authority. The search copy is only
transmitted if the international search fee has been fully paid to the
receiving Office (refer to paragraphs 5.184(ii), 5.193, 5.195 and 5.198), and,
where the international application was filed in a language not accepted by
the International Searching Authority, only after the required translation has
been furnished (refer to paragraph 5.181). Therefore, it is in the applicant’s
interests to pay the search fee promptly, and, where applicable, furnish the
translation promptly, in order to avoid any delay in establishment of the
international search report. The International Searching Authority notifies
the International Bureau, the applicant and the receiving Office of the fact
and date of receipt of the search copy.

6.060. Can the applicant obtain certified copies of the international
application?

[Rule 21.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r21.html)  
Upon request and against payment of a fee, the receiving Office must furnish
to the applicant certified copies of the international application as filed
and of any corrections to it. The certified copy of the international
application is the priority document where the applicant claims the priority
of that international application. For copies of priority documents referred
to in the international application, refer to paragraph 5.070.

##  CHAPTER 7: THE INTERNATIONAL SEARCH PROCEDURE: PROCESSING OF THE
INTERNATIONAL APPLICATION BY THE INTERNATIONAL SEARCHING AUTHORITY

GENERAL

7.001. What are the main procedural steps before the International Searching
Authority?

[Article 15](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a15.html),  [Article
18](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a18.html),  [Rule
43](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r43.html),  [Rule 43
_bis_.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r43bis.html)  
The main procedural steps that any international application goes through
before the International Searching Authority are the following:

(i) conducting the international search,

(ii) preparing the international search report, and

(iii) establishing a written opinion.

7.002. Which International Searching Authority is competent?

[Article 16](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a16.html),  [Rule 4.14
_bis_ ,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule
35](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r35.html)  
Each receiving Office (except the International Bureau as receiving Office –
refer to paragraph 5.008) specifies one or more International Searching
Authorities as competent to carry out international searches on international
applications filed with it. For some receiving Offices, different
International Searching Authorities are competent depending on the language in
which the international application is filed or, where the international
application is filed in a language accepted by the receiving Office but not by
the International Searching Authority, translated. Where several International
Searching Authorities are specified as competent by the receiving Office, the
applicant may choose between them (subject to any such language restriction).
Annex C indicates the International Searching Authority or Authorities
specified as competent by each receiving Office, and the languages in which
international applications filed with that Office are accepted for
international search by those Authorities. Where the international application
is filed with the International Bureau as receiving Office, the competent
International Searching Authority (or Authorities) is that (or are those)
which would have been competent if the international application had been
filed with a competent national (or regional) Office as receiving Office. All
of the languages accepted for search by each International Searching Authority
are set out in Annex D. Where two or more International Searching Authorities
are competent to carry out the international search, the applicant must
indicate the Authority of his/her choice in the request form (refer to
paragraph 5.072) and should also indicate it in the fee calculation sheet
(refer to paragraphs 5.093 and 5.187). Finally, within the framework of the
respective agreements relating to the functioning of certain Offices as
International Searching Authorities, these Authorities may provide for
limitations of their competence in respect of certain international
applications. The consolidated texts of these Agreements are available on the
WIPO website at the following address:
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/access/isa_ipea_agreements.html>. For more
detailed information, refer to Annex D.

7.002A. May the applicant submit comments on earlier search results to the
Authority that shall carry out the international search?

Where an international application claims the priority of an earlier
application in relation to which a search had already been carried out by the
same Office that acts as International Searching Authority, some International
Searching Authorities have indicated that they would, when carrying out the
international search, consider comments made by applicants in response to the
earlier search results relating to the priority application. Applicants who
wish to have such comments taken into account should submit them to the
receiving Office together with the international application, typically by
checking Box No. IX of the request, sub-box "Other", and indicating "Informal
comments on earlier search results". These informal comments would then be
transmitted to the International Searching Authority and the International
Bureau together with the search copy and the record copy. Informal comments on
earlier search results will be published on PATENTSCOPE (For information on
which International Searching Authorities offer this service, refer to Annex
D.)

7.003. What is the purpose of the international search?

[Article 15(4)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a15.html),  [Rule
33](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r33.html)  
The purpose of the international search is to discover relevant prior art.
“Prior art” consists of everything which has been made available to the public
anywhere in the world by means of written disclosure (including drawings and
other illustrations); it is “relevant” in respect of the international
application if it can help determine whether or not the claimed invention is
new, whether or not it involves an inventive step (in other words, whether it
is or is not obvious), and whether the making available to the public occurred
prior to the international filing date (for further details, refer to Rule
33). The international search is made on the basis of the claims, with due
regard to the description and the drawings (if any) contained in the
international application. The results of the international search are set out
in the international search report (refer to paragraphs 7.023 to 7.026).

7.004. What documents are searched by the International Searching Authority?

[Article 15(4)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a15.html),  [Rule
34.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r34.html)  
The International Searching Authority must endeavor to discover as much of the
relevant prior art as its facilities permit, and it must in any case consult
the so-called “minimum documentation.” Roughly stated, the latter comprises
the published patent documents issued after 1919 by France, by Germany from
1920 to 1945 and by the Federal Republic of Germany since 1945, by Japan (for
International Searching Authorities other than the Japan Patent Office (JPO),
only those documents for which English abstracts are generally available), by
the People’s Republic of China (for International Searching Authorities other
than the China National Intellectual Property Administration (CNIPA), only
those documents for which English abstracts are generally available), by the
Republic of Korea (for International Searching Authorities other than the
Korean Intellectual Property Office, only those documents for which English
abstracts are generally available), by the former Soviet Union and now by the
Russian Federation (for International Searching Authorities other than the
Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)(Russian Federation) only
those documents for which English abstracts are generally available), by
Switzerland (except documents in Italian), by the United Kingdom, by the
United States of America, by the African Intellectual Property Organization
(OAPI), by the African Regional Intellectual Property Organization (ARIPO), by
the Eurasian Patent Office and by the European Patent Office; published
international (PCT) applications; and, from various dates, about 135 technical
periodicals. It is emphasized, however, that, where the International
Searching Authority has more than the “minimum documentation” at its disposal,
it is obliged also to consult that additional documentation to the extent
permitted by its facilities.

7.004A. What if the international application contains later submitted missing
parts or correct elements or parts?

[Rule 20.5,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule 20.5
_bis_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html)  
The international search will usually be carried out on the basis of the
application containing the missing parts or the correct elements or parts. In
the case of incorporation by reference of correct elements or parts, although
the erroneously filed elements or parts remain in the international
application as per Rule 20.5 _bis_(d), they will not have to be considered for
the purpose of international search.

7.004B

[Rule 20.5(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule
20.5(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule 20.5
_bis_(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule 20.5
_bis_(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html) [Rule 40
_bis_.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r40bis.html)  
However, if the inclusion or incorporation by reference of missing parts or
correct elements or parts is notified to the International Searching Authority
only after it has begun to draw up the international search report, it may
invite the applicant to pay an additional fee for that purpose. The invitation
will invite the applicant to pay the additional fee within one month from the
date of the invitation and indicate the amount of the fee to be paid. The
applicant will then have to pay this additional fee directly to the
International Searching Authority. If the additional fee is not paid within
the time limit, the International Searching Authority will draw up the
international search report and the written opinion without taking into
account the missing parts or correct elements or parts.

NUCLEOTIDE AND/OR AMINO ACID SEQUENCE LISTINGS

7.005. What special requirements apply during the international search to a
nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence listing?

[Rule 5.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r5.html) [Rule 13
_ter_.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13ter.html) [Section
208](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s208.html),  [Section
513(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s513.html)  
Where the International Searching Authority finds that an international
application contains disclosure of one or more nucleotide and/or amino acid
sequences required to be included in a sequence listing pursuant to Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions and that the sequence listing complying with
the prescribed standard (refer to paragraph 5.099) in a language accepted by
that Authority has not already been furnished (either as part of the
international application or filed subsequently for the purposes of
international search), that Authority may invite the applicant to furnish a
listing complying with this standard or containing a translation of the
language-dependent free text in a language accepted by that Authority and, if
applicable, to pay a late furnishing fee. The listing required by the
International Searching Authority is for the purpose of carrying out the
international search; the application of the requirements of national law in
relation to disclosure of inventions involving a sequence listing is a matter
for the national phase of processing.

7.006. [Deleted]

7.007. [Deleted]

7.008. Does the International Bureau recommend any software for the
preparation of sequence listings in electronic format?

The sequence listing should be created using WIPO Sequence (refer to paragraph
5.104).

7.009. How should I label a diskette or any other electronic carrier accepted
by the International Searching Authority for the submission of sequence
listings?

[Annex F - Appendix IV - 2.(f) of the Administrative
Instructions](https://www.wipo.int/export/sites/www/pct/en/texts/pdf/ai_anf.pdf)  
The diskette or any other electronic carrier that is acceptable to the
competent International Searching Authority must have a label permanently
affixed thereto on which has been typed, or hand-printed in block capitals,
the name of the applicant, the title of the invention, a reference number, the
date on which the data were recorded, the computer operating system and the
name of the competent Authority. If the diskette or any other electronic
carrier that is acceptable to the competent Authority is submitted after the
date of filing of an application, the labels must also include the filing date
of the application and the application number.

7.010. What is the procedure for furnishing a sequence listing upon
invitation?

[Rule 13 _ter_.1(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13ter.html)
[Rule 13 _ter_.1(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13ter.html)
[Rule 13 _ter_.1(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13ter.html)
[Rule 13 _ter_.1(d)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13ter.html)  
An invitation from the International Searching Authority to furnish a sequence
listing complying with the standard provided for in Annex C to the
Administrative Instructions (refer to paragraphs 7.005 to 7.008) or containing
a translation of the language-dependent free text, will specify a time limit
for response to the invitation. The furnishing of a sequence listing in
response to the invitation may be subjected by the International Searching
Authority to the payment of a late furnishing fee. The amount of the late
furnishing fee shall be determined by the International Searching Authority
but shall not exceed 25% of the international filing fee referred to in item 1
of the Schedule of Fees (excluding any fee paid for each sheet of the
international application in excess of 30). Any sequence listing furnished by
the applicant must be accompanied by a statement to the effect that the
listing does not go beyond the disclosure in the international application as
filed. If the applicant does not comply within that time limit, the search
undertaken by the International Searching Authority may be restricted (refer
to paragraph 7.013).

7.011. Does a sequence listing furnished to the International Searching
Authority form part of the international application?

[Rule 13 _ter_.1(e)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13ter.html)  
Any sequence listing furnished separately to the International Searching
Authority under Rule 13 _ter_ is used only for the purposes of the
international search and does not form part of the international application.
Nevertheless, once the international application has been published, any such
sequence listing will be made available for public inspection by the
International Bureau on PATENTSCOPE (<https://www.wipo.int/patentscope/en/>).
The applicant may later amend the description (under Article 34 or at the time
of national phase entry) to include a sequence listing part of the description
complying with WIPO Standard ST.26.

7.012. Will a sequence listing furnished to the International Searching
Authority also meet any requirements of the International Preliminary
Examining Authority or, in the national phase, of a designated Office?

[Rule 13 _ter_.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13ter.html) [Rule
49.5(a-_bis_)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49.html)  
The same requirements in relation to sequence listings for the purposes of
international search apply during international preliminary examination (refer
to paragraph 10.063). The International Preliminary Examining Authority may,
for example, invite the applicant to furnish to it a sequence listing
complying with the standard provided for in Annex C of the Administrative
Instructions or containing a translation of the language-dependent free text
in a language accepted by that Authority for the purposes of international
preliminary examination. Concerning designated Offices, no designated Office
may require the applicant to furnish to it a sequence listing other than a
sequence listing complying with the standard provided for in Annex C of the
Administrative Instructions. If a designated Office finds that a sequence
listing does not comply with the prescribed standard and/or does not contain
language-dependent free text in a language accepted by the Office, it may
invite the applicant to furnish a listing or a translation complying with
those requirements (refer to National Chapters).

LIMITATIONS ON INTERNATIONAL SEARCH

7.013. May the International Searching Authority refuse to search certain
subject matter?

[Article 17(2)(a)(i)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a17.html),
[Article 17(2)(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a17.html),
[Rule 13 _ter_.1(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13ter.html)
[Rule 39.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r39.html)  
The International Searching Authority is not required to perform an
international search on claims which relate to any of the following subject
matter:

(i) scientific and mathematical theories,

(ii) plant or animal varieties or essentially biological processes for the
production of plants and animals, other than microbiological processes and the
products of such processes,

(iii) schemes, Rules or methods of doing business, performing purely mental
acts or playing games,

(iv) methods for treatment of the human or animal body by surgery or therapy,
as well as diagnostic methods,

(v) mere presentation of information, and

(vi) computer programs to the extent that the Authority is not equipped to
search prior art concerning such programs.

However, certain International Searching Authorities do, in practice, search
these fields to varying extents – for example, several International Searching
Authorities search subject matter which is normally searched under the
national (or regional) procedure (for details, refer to Annex D). In addition,
the International Searching Authority is not required to search the
international application, to the extent that a meaningful search cannot be
carried out, in certain cases where a sequence listing is not furnished in
accordance with the prescribed standard or is not available to it in an
accepted language (refer to paragraphs 7.005 to 7.012). If the International
Searching Authority is not required to search any of the claims, it may
declare that it will not establish an international search report. It should,
nevertheless, be noted that the lack of an international search report in such
a case does not, in itself, have any influence on the validity of the
international application, the processing of which, including its
communication to the designated Offices, continues. In respect of the
possibility for the International Searching Authority to limit its competence,
refer to paragraph 7.002.

7.014. May the International Searching Authority refuse to search
international applications which are unclear or have other defects?

[Article 17(2)(a)(ii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a17.html),
[Article 17(2)(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a17.html),
[Rule 6.4(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r6.html)  
If the International Searching Authority considers that the description, the
claims or the drawings fail to comply with the prescribed requirements to such
an extent that a meaningful search cannot be carried out, it may declare that
it will not establish a search report (such a declaration may also be made in
respect of some of the claims only). This may in particular occur where the
description or the claims are unclear. The lack of an international search
report does not, of itself, have any influence on the validity of the
international application, the processing of which, including its
communication to the designated Offices, continues. Where only some of the
claims are found to be “unsearchable, ” the International Searching Authority
will not search them but will search the rest of the international
application; as a result, it will then establish a partial search report in
relation to the searched claims. This partial search report also contains a
declaration under Article 17(2)(b) that certain claims were found
unsearchable. The same may apply in the case of multiple dependent claims
which do not comply with the manner of drafting provided for in the second and
third sentences of Rule 6.4(a) (refer to paragraph 5.113).

UNITY OF INVENTION

7.015. What is the purpose of the requirement of “unity of invention”?

[Article 17(3)(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a17.html),
[Rule 13](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13.html)  
The search fee (refer to paragraph 5.184(ii) and Annex D) is intended to
compensate the International Searching Authority for carrying out an
international search on the international application, but only where the
international application meets the requirement of “unity of invention.” That
means that the international application must relate to only one invention or
must relate to a group of inventions which are so linked as to form a single
general inventive concept. The requirement of unity of invention is explained
in detail in paragraphs 5.114 to 5.123.

7.016. What happens where the International Searching Authority considers that
the international application does not meet the requirement of unity of
invention?

[Article 17(3)(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a17.html),
[Rule 13](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13.html),  [Rule
40.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r40.html) [Rule
40.2(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r40.html) [Rule
40.2(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r40.html) [Rule
40.2(e)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r40.html)  
If the International Searching Authority finds that the international
application does not meet the requirement of unity of invention, it invites
the applicant to pay additional fees, specifying the reasons for its finding
and indicating the number of additional fees to be paid. The invitation will
also invite the applicant to pay, where applicable, and will indicate the
amount of, the protest fee as referred to in Rule 40.2(e). Such additional
fees are payable directly to the International Searching Authority within one
month from the date of the invitation. Annex D indicates the amount of the
additional search fee per additional invention charged by each International
Searching Authority.

7.017

When the International Searching Authority invites the applicant to pay
additional fees, it may annex to the invitation the results of a partial
international search limited to the invention first mentioned in the claims
(the relevant claims are identified in the invitation). The results of such a
partial search will be included in the international search report when it is
established, together with the results of the search of any further invention
for which the applicant pays additional fees within the time limit fixed in
the invitation.

7.018

[Article 17(3)(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a17.html),
[Rule 13](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13.html)  
The International Searching Authority establishes the international search
report in any case on those parts of the international application which
relate to the “main invention, ” that is, the invention - or group of
inventions so linked as to form a single general inventive concept - first
mentioned in the claims. Moreover, the International Searching Authority
establishes the international search report also on those parts of the
international application which relate to any invention - or any group of
inventions so linked as to form a single general inventive concept - in
respect of which the applicant has paid the additional fee within the time
limit fixed in the invitation.

7.019. May the applicant protest against payment of the additional fees?

[Rule 40.2(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r40.html) [Rule
40.2(d)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r40.html)  
Yes, any applicant may pay the additional fee under protest, that is,
accompanied by a reasoned statement to the effect that the international
application complies with the requirement of unity of invention or that the
number of the required additional fees is excessive. Any such protest is
examined by a review body constituted in the framework of the International
Searching Authority, and a decision is taken on it. To the extent that the
applicant’s protest is found to be justified, the additional fee is totally or
partly reimbursed. At the request of the applicant, the texts of both the
protest and the decision on it are notified to the designated Offices together
with the international search report.

7.020

[Rule 40.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r40.html) [Rule
40.2(e)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r40.html)  
Where the applicant pays additional fees under protest, the International
Searching Authority may also require the applicant to pay a fee for the
examination of the protest (“protest fee”). Details of the protest fee, if
any, charged by the International Searching Authorities appear in Annex D.
Where the applicant has not, within one month from the date of the invitation
to pay additional fees, paid any required protest fee, the protest shall be
considered not to have been made and the International Searching Authority
shall so declare.

7.021. What happens if the applicant does not pay the additional fees as
invited?

[Article 17(3)(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a17.html)  
Where, within the prescribed time limit, the applicant does not pay all the
additional fees indicated by the International Searching Authority, but pays
only some of them, or does not pay any additional fee at all, certain parts of
the international application are not searched by that Authority. The lack of
an international search report in respect of those parts of the international
application does not, of itself, have any influence on the validity of the
international application, the processing of which, including its
communication to the designated Offices, continues in respect of all claims.
Nevertheless, the national law of any designated State may provide that such
unsearched parts of the international application will be considered withdrawn
as far as that State is concerned unless a special fee is paid by the
applicant to its national Office. There are only a few Offices which apply
such provisions. Details of special fees are given in the respective National
Chapters.

TITLE AND ABSTRACT

7.022. What happens if the International Searching Authority finds that the
title of the invention or the abstract is missing or defective?

[Rule 37](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r37.html),  [Rule
38](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r38.html),  [Rule
44.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r44.html)  
In such cases, and in certain circumstances, it is the International Searching
Authority which eventually establishes an appropriate title or abstract. For
details, refer to Rules 37, 38 and 44.2, and paragraph 5.173.

INTERNATIONAL SEARCH REPORT

7.023. When must the international search report be established?

[Article 18(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a18.html),  [Rule
42](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r42.html)  
The international search report must be established within three months from
the receipt of the search copy by the International Searching Authority (refer
to paragraph 6.059) or nine months from the priority date, whichever time
limit expires later.

7.024. What are the contents of the international search report?

[Rule 43](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r43.html)  
The international search report contains, among other things, the citation of
the documents considered relevant, the classification of the subject matter of
the invention (according to the International Patent Classification) and an
indication of the fields searched (those fields being identified by a
reference to their classification) as well as any electronic data base
searched (including, where practicable, the search terms used). Citations of
particular relevance must be indicated specially. Citations which are not
relevant to all the claims must be indicated in relation to the claim or
claims to which they are relevant. If only certain passages of the document
cited are relevant or particularly relevant, they must be identified, for
example by an indication of the page on which, or the column or lines in
which, the passage appears. It is important to note that an international
search report must not contain any expression of opinion, reasoning, argument
or explanation of any kind whatsoever. For full details, refer to Rule 43.

7.025. How do the applicant and the International Bureau receive the
international search report?

[Article 18(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a18.html),  [Rule
44.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r44.html)  
The International Searching Authority transmits, on the same day, one copy of
the international search report (or, where none is established, a declaration
to that effect - refer to paragraphs 7.013 and 7.014) and the written opinion
established by it to the applicant and to the International Bureau. The latter
publishes the international search report with the published international
application (refer to paragraph 9.015) and sends a copy to the designated
Offices.

7.025A. May the applicant respond to the international search report?

The Regulations do not specifically provide for an opportunity for the
applicant to respond to the international search report, except that after
receipt of the report, the applicant is entitled, under Article 19, to one
opportunity to amend the claims of the international application (refer to
paragraphs 9.004 to 9.011). For the possibility to respond to the written
opinion of the International Searching Authority, refer to paragraph 7.030.

7.026. How can the applicant obtain copies of the documents cited in the
international search report?

[Article 20(3)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a20.html),  [Rule
44.3](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r44.html)  
The applicant can obtain copies of the documents cited in the international
search report by requesting them from the International Searching Authority.
Certain International Searching Authorities, however, transmit such copies
automatically without extra charge to the applicant, together with the
international search report. Annex D indicates those International Searching
Authorities and indicates for the other Authorities the fees charged for
furnishing copies on request.

WRITTEN OPINION OF THE INTERNATIONAL SEARCHING AUTHORITY

7.027. What is the written opinion of the International Searching Authority?

[Rule 43 _bis_.1(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r43bis.html)  
The International Searching Authority will establish, at the same time that it
establishes the international search report or the declaration referred to in
Article 17(2)(a), a preliminary and nonbinding written opinion on the
questions whether the claimed invention appears to be novel, to involve an
inventive step and to be industrially applicable, very similar in scope to the
written opinion established by the International Preliminary Examining
Authority during international preliminary examination.

7.028

[Rule 44.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r44.html)  
The relevant date for determining prior art for the purposes of establishing
the written opinion is the international filing date or, where priority of an
earlier application is claimed, the priority date - this date is different
from that used in establishing the international search report but is
consistent with the date used in international preliminary examination. The
written opinion of the International Searching Authority is established in the
language in which the international search report is established, and is
communicated to the applicant and to the International Bureau together with
the international search report or the declaration referred to inArticle
17(2)(a) (refer to paragraph 7.025). The written opinion, unless it is not yet
available to the International Bureau, is also made publicly available on
PATENTSCOPE on the same day that the international application is published.

7.029. When must the written opinion be established?

[Article 18(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a18.html),  [Rule
42](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r42.html)  
The International Searching Authority must, as a rule, establish the
international search report and the written opinion within three months from
the receipt of the search copy sent to it by the receiving Office or within
nine months from the priority date, whichever time limit expires later.

7.030. May the applicant respond to the written opinion of the International
Searching Authority?

Even though no special provisions are included in the Regulations providing
for the applicant to comment on the written opinion of the International
Searching Authority, in accordance with the decision of the PCT Assembly,
applicants may submit comments on an informal basis to the International
Bureau. The purpose of such informal comments is to give the applicant an
opportunity to rebut the written opinion of the International Searching
Authority in the event that international preliminary examination is not
requested. There is no maximum word count for informal comments. When
submitting informal comments to the International Bureau, they should be
clearly identified as such. Informal comments will be made publicly available
on PATENTSCOPE as from the date of international publication. It is
recommended to submit informal comments before the expiration of 28 months
from the priority date, so that they will be available to designated Offices
upon entry into the national phase. Any informal comments received after 30
months from the priority date will only be kept in the file of the
International Bureau and not be transmitted to the designated Offices. As far
as the language of the informal comments is concerned, it is the practice of
the International Bureau to accept and communicate to designated Offices
informal comments in any language. Any formal response to the written opinion
of the International Searching Authority must be submitted directly to the
International Preliminary Examining Authority under Article 34 as part of the
procedure under Chapter II. If a demand is filed, informal comments submitted
under Chapter I will not be forwarded to the designated Offices, however they
will still be made available to the public on PATENTSCOPE.

7.031. What is the relationship between the written opinion of the
International Searching Authority and the international preliminary report on
patentability (IPRP) (Chapter I)?

[Rule 44 _bis_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r44bis.html)  
If no international preliminary examination report has been or will be
established, the written opinion of the International Searching Authority will
form the basis for the issuance by the International Bureau, on behalf of the
International Searching Authority, of the international preliminary report on
patentability (IPRP) (Chapter I) which will be communicated to all designated
Offices, together with any informal comments submitted by the applicant. The
international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter I) is made
available on PATENTSCOPE for public inspection after the expiration of 30
months from the priority date.

7.032

[Rule 43 _bis_.1(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r43bis.html)
[Rule 66.1 _bis_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html)  
If a demand for international preliminary examination is filed in respect of
an international application, the written opinion which has been established
by the International Searching Authority will, in general, be used by the
International Preliminary Examining Authority as its own first written
opinion, unless the International Preliminary Examining Authority notifies the
International Bureau to the contrary.

##  CHAPTER 8: SUPPLEMENTARY INTERNATIONAL SEARCH

GENERAL

8.001. What is supplementary international search?

[Rule 45 _bis_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)  
Supplementary international search permits the applicant to request, in
addition to the international search carried out under Article 15(1) (the
“main international search”, as explained in Chapter 7), one or more
supplementary international searches each to be carried out by an
International Authority (the “Authority specified for supplementary search”)
other than the International Searching Authority that carries out the main
international search.

8.002. What are the benefits of supplementary international search for the
applicant?

Requesting supplementary international search reduces the risk of new prior
art being cited in the national phase. The increasing diversity of prior art
in different languages and different technical fields means that the Authority
carrying out the main international search is not always capable of
discovering all of the relevant prior art. Requesting one or more
supplementary international searches, during this early phase of the patent
prosecution, expands both the linguistic and technical scope of the search. In
addition, it may also be possible to have the supplementary search carried out
in a State where they are likely to enter the national phase later on.

8.003. Which authorities can be requested to carry out a supplementary
international search?

[Rule 45 _bis_.1(e),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)
[Rule 45 _bis_.9(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)  
Only an International Searching Authority that has stated its preparedness to
carry out supplementary international searches (refer to Annex SISA), and
which is not the International Searching Authority that carried out the main
international search, can be requested to carry out a supplementary
international search.

8.004. Does each Authority offer the same supplementary international search
service?

[Rule 45 _bis_.9(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)
[Rule 45 _bis_.9(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)  
The Authorities prepared to offer supplementary international searches may
specify any limitations and conditions on this service in their agreement with
the International Bureau (refer to
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/access/isa_ipea_agreements.html>). These
limitations may include limitations as to the subject matter for which
supplementary searches will be carried out, beyond those limitations that can
be evoked in respect of the main international search (refer to paragraphs
7.013 and 7.014), and limitations as to the total number of supplementary
international searches which will be carried out in a given period (refer to
Annex SISA).

8.005. When should the request for a supplementary search be filed?

[Rule 45 _bis_.1(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)
[Rule 45 _bis_.1(e)(i)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)  
In many cases, requests for supplementary search will be filed once the
applicant has received the main international search report. In any event, the
applicant must file a request for a supplementary international search prior
to the expiration of 22 months from the priority date. If the request is
received after the expiration of this time limit, it will be considered not to
have been submitted and there are no provisions to extend this time limit.

SUPPLEMENTARY SEARCH REQUEST

8.006. How should a supplementary search request be filed?

[Rule 45 _bis_.1(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)
[Section 102(f)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s102.html),  [Section
102(g)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s102.html)  
To facilitate preparation of the supplementary search request, the
International Bureau has made available Form PCT/IB/375 “Supplementary Search
Request” in editable PDF format on WIPO’s website (instructions on how to
complete and save the editable form are also available at:
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/forms/instructions.html>). This form should be
completed in accordance with indications in the Notes attached to the form.
While use of this form is optional, it is highly recommended. It is further
recommended to submit the form to the International Bureau through ePCT.

8.007. Can I submit more than one request for supplementary international
search?

[Rule 45 _bis_.1(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)  
If the applicant wishes more than one supplementary international search to be
carried out, a separate request, preferably using Form PCT/IB/375, should be
submitted for each supplementary international search requested.

8.008. Where should a supplementary search request be filed?

[Rule 45 _bis_.1(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)
[Rule 45 _bis_.4(e)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)  
A supplementary search request must be filed with the International Bureau and
not with the Authority specified for supplementary search. The International
Bureau will transmit the request to the Authority specified for supplementary
search once it has verified that all formal requirements have been complied
with.

8.009. In which language should the supplementary search request be filed?

[Rule 92.2(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r92.html) [Section
104](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s104.html)  
The supplementary search request should be filed in either English or French.

8.010. What is the language of correspondence with the International Bureau in
connection with supplementary international search?

[Rule 92.2(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r92.html) [Section
104](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s104.html)  
Any correspondence between the applicant and the International Bureau should
be in English or French, at the choice of the applicant, provided that it is
in the same language as the international application – if the international
application was filed in English or French. However, communications from the
applicant to the International Bureau via ePCT may also be in the language of
publication of the international application.

8.011. How should the Authority specified for supplementary search be
identified?

[Rule 45 _bis_.1(b)(ii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)  
The Authority specified for supplementary search should be identified, by an
indication of the name or two-letter code of the Authority at the top of the
first sheet of the supplementary search request form (PCT/IB/375).

8.012. Which documents, other than the supplementary search request must be
submitted?

[Rule 13 _ter_.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13ter.html) [Rule
45 _bis_.1(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)  
Where neither the language in which the international application was filed,
nor the language in which a translation (if any) has been furnished for the
purposes of main international search or international publication, is
accepted by the Authority specified for supplementary search, a translation of
the international application into a language which is accepted by that
Authority must be submitted together with the request. Where the international
application contains disclosure of one or more nucleotide and/or amino acid
sequences required to be included in a sequence listing pursuant to Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, the applicant, if so required, should furnish
a copy of the sequence listing (complying with the prescribed standard in a
language accepted by that Authority) to the International Bureau together with
the supplementary search request.

Box No. I: Identification of the International Application

8.013. How should the international application be identified when I file a
request for international supplementary search?

[Rule 45 _bis_.1(b)(i),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)
[Section 109](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s109.html),  [Section
110](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s110.html)  
The applicant should clearly identify the international application by its
international application number, international filing date (for the date
format, refer to paragraph 5.061) and title, as provided for in Box No. I. If
a new title has been established by the International Searching Authority,
that title should be indicated.

8.014

Where the international application claims the priority of several earlier
applications, the filing date of the earliest application whose priority is
claimed should be indicated as the priority date. A file reference not
exceeding 25 characters may also be indicated, if desired by the applicant
(refer to paragraph 5.017).

Box No. II: Applicant

8.015. How should the applicant be identified?

[Rule 45 _bis_.1(b)(i)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)  
The applicant should be identified by the indications of his/her name and
address in Box No. II. The requirements for these indications are the same as
those for the request form (PCT/RO/101) (refer to paragraphs 5.025 to 5.034).

8.016

Where there are two or more applicants, only one needs to be indicated for the
purposes of requesting supplementary search. It is recommended that the
applicant who will represent all the applicants, and to whom notifications are
to be sent, be indicated. If an agent or a common representative is indicated
in Box No. III of the request, notices will be sent to that agent or common
representative (also refer to paragraphs 11.015 to 11.017).

8.017. How can the applicant receive notifications via e-mail?

[Rule 4.4(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html)  
If an e-mail address is indicated in Box No. II of the supplementary search
request form, the International Bureau, and the Authority specified for
supplementary search (if it provides such a service), will send notifications
in respect of the international application to the applicant by e-mail, thus
avoiding processing or postal delays. In this case, no paper notifications
will usually be sent by postal mail, unless the Authority specified for
supplementary search is willing to additionally send such paper notifications.
Where the agent or common representative has also provided an e-mail address,
e-mail notifications will only be sent to the appointed agent or common
representative (refer to paragraph 8.018). Note that not all Authorities will
send such notifications by e-mail (refer to Annex B). If no e-mail address is
provided, or if the applicant chooses to receive notifications exclusively by
postal mail, by marking the corresponding check-box in Box No. II, or in the
cases where the Authority specified for supplementary search does not provide
for sending notifications by e-mail, notifications will be sent to the given
mailing address exclusively by postal mail. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to keep any e-mail address details up-to-date and to ensure
that incoming e-mails are not blocked, for any reason, on the recipient’s
side. Changes to the e-mail address indicated should be requested to be
recorded, preferably directly at the International Bureau, under Rule 92
_bis_.

Box No. III: Agent or Common Representative

8.018. How is an agent appointed for the purposes of the procedure before the
Authority specified for supplementary search?

[Rule 45 _bis_.1(b)(i),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)
[Rule 90.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html) [Rule
90.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html) [Rule
90.4,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html) [Rule
90.5](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html)  
The appointment of an agent to represent the applicant for the purposes of all
procedures during the international phase, including the procedure before the
Authority specified for supplementary search, may be made in Box No. IV of the
request form (PCT/RO/101) or in a separate power of attorney submitted to the
receiving Office (also refer to paragraphs 5.041 to 5.046 and 11.001 to
11.014).

8.019. Can I appoint an agent specifically for the procedures before the
Authority specified for supplementary search?

Where, however, an agent is to be appointed specifically for the purposes of
the procedure before the Authority specified for supplementary search, this
should be indicated in Box No. III of the supplementary search request form
and the form signed by the applicant.

8.020

The appointment of an agent may also be made in a separate power of attorney
signed by the applicant. The indications in Box No. III or in a separate power
of attorney must include the name and address of the agent (refer to
paragraphs 5.025 to 5.029). It is recommended that the agent’s telephone
number, facsimile number and/or e-mail address also be indicated. It is also
recommended that where an agent is registered with the Office, that is acting
as the Authority specified for supplementary search, the number or other
indication under which the agent is so registered should be included. Model
powers of attorney are available in editable PDF format on the WIPO website.
Any separate power of attorney must be submitted to the Authority specified
for supplementary search if the appointment was made specifically for the
purposes of the procedure before that Authority. Where a general power of
attorney authorizes an agent to represent the applicant before the Office,
which acts as the Authority specified for supplementary search, and the
appointment was made specifically for the purposes of the procedure before
that Authority, the general power of attorney must be deposited with the said
Authority. The Authority specified for supplementary search may waive the
requirement that a separate power of attorney or a copy of the general power
of attorney be submitted to it (refer to Annex SISA).

8.021. How can an agent receive notifications via e-mail?

[Rule 4.4(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html)  
If an e-mail address is indicated in Box No. III, the International Bureau,
and the Authority specified for supplementary search (if it provides such a
service), will send notifications to the agent or common representative at the
indicated e-mail address, thus avoiding processing or postal delays (refer to
paragraph 8.017). In this case, no paper notifications will usually be sent by
postal mail, unless the Authority specified for supplementary search is
willing to additionally send such paper notifications. If no e-mail address is
provided, or if the agent or common representative chooses to receive
notifications exclusively by postal mail, by marking the corresponding check-
box in Box No. III, or in the cases where the Authority specified for
supplementary search does not provide for sending notifications by e-mail,
notifications will be sent to the given mailing address exclusively by postal
mail.

8.022. What is the address for correspondence?

[Section 108](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s108.html)  
Where an agent is appointed specifically for the purposes of the procedure
before the Authority specified for supplementary search, all notifications
issued by that Authority will be addressed only to that agent. Otherwise,
correspondence will be sent to the agent appointed previously or to the common
representative, as the case may be. However, where no agent or common
representative is appointed and the applicant wishes correspondence to be sent
to a different address other than that indicated in Box No. II, the applicant
may indicate that address in Box No. III. In such cases, the last check-box of
Box No. III must be marked. However, the last check-box must not be marked if
either of the check-boxes “agent” or “common representative” in Box No. III
has been marked.

Box No. IV: Basis for Supplementary International Search

8.023. Where should the language, for the purposes of supplementary
international search, be indicated?

[Rule 45 _bis_.1(b)(iii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)  
The applicant should indicate the language, for the purposes of supplementary
international search, in Box No. IV and whether that language is that of the
international application as originally filed, or of any translation furnished
to the receiving Office under Rule 12.3 or 12.4. Where neither the language in
which the international application was filed, nor the language in which a
translation (if any) has been furnished under Rule 12.3 or 12.4, is accepted
by the Authority specified for supplementary search, a translation of the
international application, into a language accepted by that Authority, must be
furnished together with the request. In such cases, the last check-box
concerning language should be marked. Where more than one of the above
applies, the applicant may indicate which language version is to form the
basis of the supplementary international search, by marking the corresponding
check-box.

8.024. When and how may the applicant select certain inventions to be
searched?

[Rule 45 _bis_.1(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)
[Rule 45 _bis_.5(d)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)  
Where the International Searching Authority has found that the international
application does not comply with the requirement of unity of invention, the
applicant may choose, among the several inventions, which invention he/she
wishes to be searched by the Authority specified for supplementary search. If
the applicant wishes to limit the supplementary international search to an
invention, other than the main invention referred to in Article 17(3)(a),
he/she may indicate this wish by marking the last check-box in Box No. IV of
the supplementary search request form, and state the corresponding numbers of
the claims relating to this invention in the space provided. Where the
international search report is available to the Authority specified for
supplementary search before it starts the supplementary international search,
it may, however, exclude from the search any claims which were not the subject
of the main international search.

Box No. V: Check List

8.025. What is the purpose of the check list?

Box No. V should be completed by the applicant to allow the International
Bureau to verify the completeness of the documents accompanying the
supplementary search request and, in particular, to check whether a
translation of the international application and a sequence listing, where
indicated in the respective check-boxes, are actually received.

Box No. VI: Signature of Applicant, Agent or Common Representative

8.026. Who must sign the supplementary search request?

[Rule 90.3(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html) [Rule
92.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r92.html)  
The supplementary search request must be signed by one of the applicants or by
the appointed agent. It should be noted, however, that additional signatures
may be required for withdrawal of the supplementary search request (refer to
paragraphs 11.048 to 11.061).

Notes to the Supplementary Search Request Form

8.027. What are the Notes to the supplementary search request form?

The Notes to the supplementary search request form are intended to facilitate
the completion of that form. They outline, in relation to each Box of that
form, what indications are required and how they are to be made. The Notes are
not required to be submitted with the supplementary search request.

Fee Calculation Sheet

8.028. What is the fee calculation sheet?

The fee calculation sheet is intended to help the applicant calculate the
total amount of fees payable to the International Bureau. The sheet is usually
annexed to the supplementary search request form (refer to 8.006). It is
strongly recommended that the applicant complete the fee calculation sheet and
submit it to the International Bureau. This will help the International Bureau
to verify the fee calculations and identify any errors. The Notes to the fee
calculation sheet provide details about completion of the sheet. For more
information about the payment of fees generally, refer to paragraphs 5.184 to
5.199.

FEES

8.029. Which fees must be paid by the applicant?

[Rule 45 _bis_.2(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)
[Rule 45 _bis_.3(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)  
Two fees must be paid for supplementary international search: (i) the
supplementary search fee for the benefit of the Authority specified for
supplementary search; and (ii) the supplementary search handling fee for the
benefit of the International Bureau. The supplementary search fee charged by
each Authority varies and is fixed by the Authority in its agreement with the
International Bureau (refer to
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/access/isa_ipea_agreements.html> and Annex SISA).
The supplementary search handling fee is fixed by the PCT Assembly and listed
in the Schedule of Fees annexed to the PCT Regulations.

8.029A. Is any fee reduction available?

An applicant is entitled, in accordance with the Schedule of Fees, item 5, to
a reduction of 90% of the supplementary search handling fee if he/she is a
natural person and a national of and resides in a State that is listed as
being a State whose per capita gross domestic product is below 25,000 US
dollars (according to the most recent 10-year average per capita gross
domestic product figures at constant 2005 US dollars values published by the
United Nations), and whose nationals and residents who are natural persons
have filed less than 10 international applications per year (per million
population) or less than 50 international applications per year (in absolute
numbers) according to the most recent 5-year average yearly filing figures
published by the International Bureau or if he/she is, whether a natural
person or not, a national of and resides in a State that is listed as being
classified by the United Nations as a least developed country. (For a list of
States whose nationals and residents are eligible for the fee reduction, refer
to <https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/docs/fee-reduction-january.pdf>). If there are
several applicants, each must satisfy one or the other of the above-mentioned
criteria. However, it should be noted that an applicant is only entitled to
the reduction if, at the time of filing the supplementary search request, the
applicant is the true and only owner of the application and under no
obligation to assign, grant, convey or license the rights in the invention to
another party which is not eligible for the fee reduction. If the applicant
is, or all applicants are, entitled to the reduction of the supplementary
search handling fee, this reduction applies on the basis of the indications of
name, nationality and residence given in Box No. II of the supplementary
search request, without the need for a specific request to be made.

8.030. When must the applicable fees be paid?

[Rule 45 _bis_.2(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)
[Rule 45 _bis_.2(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)
[Rule 45 _bis_.3(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)
[Rule 45 _bis_.3(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)
[Rule 45 _bis_.4(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)
[Rule 45 _bis_.4(d)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)  
Both the supplementary search fee and the supplementary search handling fee
must be paid to the International Bureau within one month from the date of
receipt of the supplementary search request. If they are not paid in full
within that time limit, a late payment fee will become due (refer to Form
PCT/IB/377). If the fees remain unpaid, the International Bureau will consider
the request not to have been submitted.

8.031. In which currencies may fees for supplementary international search be
paid?

Payment of fees will only be accepted in Swiss francs. The amount payable is
the amount applicable on the date of payment.

8.032. Can fees already paid be refunded in some circumstances?

[Rule 45 _bis_.2(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)
[Rule 45 _bis_.3(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)
[Rule 45 _bis_.3(e)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)  
If, before the International Bureau has transmitted the relevant documents to
the Authority specified for supplementary search, the international
application is withdrawn or considered withdrawn, or the supplementary search
request is withdrawn or considered not to have been submitted, the
International Bureau will refund both the supplementary search fee and the
supplementary search handling fee to the applicant. If, before the Authority
specified for supplementary search has started the search, the supplementary
search request is considered not to have been submitted, that Authority will
refund the supplementary search fee to the applicant in accordance with its
agreement with the International Bureau (refer to paragraph 8.029).

PROCESSING OF THE SUPPLEMENTARY SEARCH REQUEST BY THE INTERNATIONAL BUREAU

8.033. What does the International Bureau check upon receipt of the
supplementary search request?

[Rule 45 _bis_.1(e)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)  
Following receipt of the supplementary search request, the International
Bureau will check whether the request was received within the prescribed time
limit, that is, before the expiration of 22 months from the priority date. It
will verify whether the Authority specified is competent to carry out the
search, that is, an International Authority which is prepared to offer
supplementary international searches and which is not the International
Searching Authority that carried out the main international search. If these
requirements have not been complied with, it will declare the supplementary
search request not to have been submitted, and will notify the applicant
accordingly using Form PCT/IB/379 (also refer to paragraphs 8.003 to 8.005).

8.034. What happens if there are other defects in the supplementary search
request?

[Rule 45 _bis_.4(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)  
The International Bureau will then check whether the supplementary search
request has clearly indicated the name and address of at least one applicant
and of the agent (if any), the title of the invention, the international
filing date and the international application number. It will also verify
whether a translation of the international application is needed to carry out
the supplementary international search, and where necessary, whether that
translation has been furnished. If any of these requirements have not been
complied with, it will invite the applicant to correct these defects within
one month from the date of the invitation using Form PCT/IB/378 (also refer to
paragraphs 8.013 to 8.016, 8.018 to 8.020, and 8.023).

8.035. What happens if the fees are not paid or not paid in full?

[Rule 45 _bis_.4(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)
[Rule 45 _bis_.4(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)  
The International Bureau will also check whether the supplementary search fee
and the supplementary search handling fee have been paid in full. If not, and
the one month time limit has not expired, it will invite the applicant to pay
the amount required to cover those fees using Form PCT/IB/376. If the one
month time limit has already expired, the International Bureau will issue Form
PCT/IB/377, inviting the applicant to pay the amount required together with a
late payment fee equal to 50% of the supplementary search handling fee, within
one month from the date of the invitation (refer also to paragraphs 8.029 and
8.030).

8.036

[Rule 45 _bis_.4(d)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)  
If the applicant fails to correct these defects, or does not pay the fees in
full, before the expiration of the respective time limit, the supplementary
search request will be considered not to have been submitted, and the
International Bureau will make a declaration to this effect and notify the
applicant accordingly using Form PCT/IB/379.

8.037. When will the International Bureau transmit the relevant documents to
the Authority specified for supplementary search?

[Rule 45 _bis_.4(e)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)  
Once the International Bureau finds that all of the preceding requirements
(refer to paragraphs 8.033 to 8.035) have been complied with, it will transmit
the relevant documents (refer to paragraph 8.038) to the Authority specified
for supplementary search, promptly after it receives the international search
report, or after the expiration of 17 months from the priority date, whichever
occurs first. If some documents are still not available to it at the above
time, it will promptly transmit them once they are available.

8.038. Which documents are transmitted by the International Bureau to the
Authority specified for supplementary search?

[Rule 45 _bis_.4(e),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)
[Rule 45 _bis_.4(f)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)  
The International Bureau will transmit to the Authority specified for
supplementary search a copy of each of the following, where applicable:

(i) the supplementary search request,

(ii) the international application,

(iii) any sequence listing furnished therewith,

(iv) any translation furnished which is to be used as the basis for the
supplementary international search,

(v) the international search report and the written opinion (including an
English translation),

(vi) any invitation by the International Searching Authority to pay additional
fees concerning unity of invention, and

(vii) any protest by the applicant against the opinion of the International
Searching Authority concerning unity of invention, and the decision thereon by
the same Authority.

SUPPLEMENTARY INTERNATIONAL SEARCH PROCEDURE

8.039. When will the Authority start work on the supplementary international
search?

[Rule 45 _bis_.5(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)  
On receipt of the relevant documents from the International Bureau, the
Authority specified for supplementary search should promptly begin its work
(refer to paragraph 8.037). However, if on receipt of the relevant documents,
the international search report and written opinion are not yet available, the
Authority may postpone the start of the search until it receives these
documents. Work on the supplementary international search must, however,
commence promptly after the expiration of 22 months from the priority date,
regardless of the lateness of the international search report and written
opinion. The absence of those documents will be noted on the international
search report.

8.040. Which documents may the applicant submit directly to the Authority
specified for supplementary search?

[Rule 13 _ter_.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13ter.html) [Rule
45 _bis_.4(e),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html) [Rule 45
_bis_.5(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)  
The applicant should furnish all the required documents to the International
Bureau with the supplementary search request (refer to paragraph 8.012), and
the International Bureau will transmit these, together with all other relevant
documents, to the Authority specified for supplementary search (refer to
paragraph 8.038). Any amendments filed under Article 19 or 34 will not be
taken into account. If, however, the applicant did not submit a copy of the
sequence listing complying with the prescribed standard in a language accepted
by that Authority to the International Bureau, together with the request for
supplementary search (refer to paragraph 8.012), the applicant will be invited
by the Authority specified for supplementary search to submit such a copy to
the said Authority. Failure to comply with this requirement may result in that
Authority only carrying out the supplementary international search to the
extent that a meaningful search can be carried out without the sequence
listing (refer also to paragraphs 7.005 to 7.012 for more relevant
information).

8.041. What are the consequences if the Authority finds that carrying out the
supplementary international search is excluded by a limitation or condition?

[Rule 45 _bis_.5(g),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)
[Rule 45 _bis_.5(h),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)
[Rule 45 _bis_.9](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)  
If the Authority specified for supplementary search finds that carrying out
the search is entirely excluded by a limitation or condition set out in its
Agreement with the International Bureau (refer to
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/access/isa_ipea_agreements.html>), other than a
limitation under Article 17(2), it will declare that the supplementary search
request be considered not to have been submitted, and promptly notify the
applicant and the International Bureau accordingly. If, however, the Authority
finds that carrying out the search is not entirely excluded, it may restrict
the search to certain claims only and will indicate this fact in the
supplementary international search report.

8.042. May the Authority refuse to search certain claims?

[Article 17(2)(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a17.html),
[Rule 45 _bis_.5](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)  
In certain circumstances the Authority is not obliged to conduct a
supplementary search on some or all of the claims in the international
application. These include subject matter that the Authority would not search
in a main international search and claims which have not been searched by the
main searching Authority. If the Authority specified for supplementary search
finds that it is not obliged to search any of the claims, it will declare that
no supplementary international search report will be established (refer to
paragraph 8.048) and promptly notify the applicant and the International
Bureau accordingly.

8.043. What is the scope of the supplementary international search?

[Rule 45 _bis_.5(f)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)  
The supplementary international search shall cover at least the documentation
indicated for that purpose in the Agreement between the International
Authority acting as the Authority specified for supplementary search and the
International Bureau (refer to
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/access/isa_ipea_agreements.html>). For some
Authorities this may comprise all PCT documentation plus other patent and
technical documents held by that Authority, while others will focus
specifically on documentation in certain languages (refer to Annex SISA).

8.044. What will happen where the main International Searching Authority finds
that the international application does not comply with the requirement of
unity of invention?

[Rule 13](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13.html),  [Rule 45
_bis_.5(e)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)  
If the main International Searching Authority finds that the international
application does not comply with the requirement of unity of invention and the
applicant did not pay any additional search fees, the Authority specified for
supplementary search is not obliged to carry out any supplementary search on
claims which have not been searched by the main International Searching
Authority. The requirements for unity of invention are set out in detail in
paragraphs 5.114 to 5.123. The Authority specified for supplementary search is
not, however, obliged to agree with the main International Searching Authority
and may make its own finding on unity of invention.

8.045. What will happen where the Authority specified for supplementary search
considers that the international application does not comply with the
requirement of unity of invention?

[Rule 45 _bis_.6(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)
[Rule 45 _bis_.6(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)  
If the Authority specified for supplementary search finds that the
international application does not comply with the requirement of unity of
invention (the requirements for unity of invention are set out in detail in
paragraphs 5.114 to 5.123) it will not invite the applicant to pay additional
fees, as the International Searching Authority does in the main international
search. Instead, it will establish the supplementary international search
report on those parts of the international application that relate to the
invention first mentioned in the claims (“main invention”), and notify the
applicant of its opinion that the international application does not comply
with the requirement of unity of invention and specify the reasons for that
opinion. The applicant may, within one month from the date of the
notification, request the Authority to review its opinion, subject to the
payment of any review fee (refer to Annex SISA). The review fee will be
refunded in full where the opinion is found to be unjustified (refer to
paragraph 8.046), and a revised supplementary international search report will
be issued, where appropriate.

8.046. What will happen when the applicant requests a review of the opinion of
the Authority on unity of invention?

[Rule 45 _bis_.6(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)
[Rule 45 _bis_.6(e)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)  
If the applicant requests a review of the opinion of the Authority specified
for supplementary search that the international application does not comply
with the requirement of unity of invention and pays any required review fee,
the Authority will review its opinion on unity of invention. The review may
not be carried out only by the person who made the decision which is the
subject of the review. The result of the review will be notified to the
applicant. If the opinion is found to be entirely unjustified, the Authority
will establish the supplementary international search report on all parts of
the international application and refund the review fee to the applicant. If
the opinion is found to be partially unjustified, and the Authority still
considers that the international application does not comply with the
requirement of unity of invention, it will establish a corrected supplementary
international search report where necessary. Independent of the review, the
applicant may always request that the text of both the request for review and
the decision thereon be communicated to the designated Offices together with
the supplementary international search report.

8.047. When is the supplementary international search report established?

[Rule 45 _bis_.7(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)  
The supplementary international search report must be established within 28
months from the priority date using Form PCT/SISA/501.

8.048. What happens when the Authority specified for supplementary search
declares that no supplementary international search report will be
established?

[Rule 45 _bis_.7(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)  
A declaration that no supplementary international search report will be
established must be made within 28 months from the priority date using Form
PCT/SISA/502 (refer to paragraphs 8.003 and 8.004).

8.049. What does the supplementary international search report contain?

[Rule 45 _bis_.7(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)
[Rule 45 _bis_.7](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html) (e)  
The supplementary international search report is generally similar in contents
and appearance to the main international search report (refer to paragraph
7.024). It does not, however, contain comments on the title of the invention
or the abstract, nor does it contain the classification of the subject matter.
Further, it does not repeat relevant prior art documents which have already
been cited in the international search report, unless this is necessary
because of new relevance when read in conjunction with other documents
discovered during the supplementary international search. On occasion, the
supplementary international search report may contain more detailed
explanations concerning citations of documents than those in the main
international search report. This is due to the fact that, unlike the main
international search, no written opinion is established with the supplementary
international search report, and these additional details are helpful for a
full understanding of the prior art. Furthermore, it may contain additional
comments on the scope of the supplementary search which has been conducted.
This is of particular relevance when the supplementary search has been carried
out without the benefit of the main international search report.

8.050. How can the applicant obtain copies of the documents cited in the
supplementary international search report?

[Article 20(3)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a20.html),  [Rule
44.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r44.html) [Rule 45
_bis_.7](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)  
Many Authorities which have stated their preparedness to carry out
supplementary international search transmit such copies automatically, without
extra charge to the applicant, together with the supplementary international
search report. Annex SISA indicates whether an Authority charges a fee for
furnishing copies of these documents.

8.051. How is the supplementary international search report transmitted?

[Article 20(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a20.html),  [Rule
45 _bis_.8,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html) [Rule
47.1(d)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r47.html)  
The Authority specified for supplementary search will, on the same day,
transmit one copy of the supplementary international search report (or, the
declaration that no supplementary international search report will be
established) to the International Bureau and one copy to the applicant. The
International Bureau will include the supplementary international search
report in its communication to each designated Office, as if it were part of
the international search report, unless the designated Office has waived this
requirement.

8.052. Is a copy of the supplementary international search report sent to the
International Preliminary Examining Authority?

[Rule 45 _bis_.8(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)
[Rule 45 _bis_.8(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45bis.html)
[Section 420(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s420.html)  
Where the applicant files a demand for international preliminary examination,
and the International Preliminary Examining Authority is not the same
Authority as that specified for supplementary search, the International Bureau
will, promptly on receipt of the supplementary international search report,
transmit a copy of said report to the International Preliminary Examining
Authority. The report, together with the international search report, will all
be taken into account by that Authority during the process of international
preliminary examination. Note, however, if that Authority has already begun to
draw up the international preliminary examination report, it need not take
into account the supplementary international search report for the purposes of
that report.

8.053. Will the supplementary international search report be published?

[Article 20(3)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a20.html),  [Rule
44.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r44.html) [Rule
94.1(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r94.html)  
The supplementary international search report is not published _per se_ nor as
part of the international publication. Nevertheless, once the international
application has been published, and the supplementary international search
report has been received, it is made available for public inspection by the
International Bureau on PATENTSCOPE (<https://www.wipo.int/patentscope/en/>).

##  CHAPTER 9: INTERNATIONAL PUBLICATION, AMENDMENT OF CLAIMS, AND OTHER
PROCESSING OF THE INTERNATIONAL APPLICATION BY THE INTERNATIONAL BUREAU

GENERAL

9.001. What are the main procedural steps at the International Bureau?

The main procedural steps that any international application goes through at
the International Bureau are the following:

[Rule 22.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r22.html) [Rule
24.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r24.html)  
(i) the International Bureau monitors the receipt of the record copy of the
international application and notifies the fact, and the date of receipt, to
the applicant and the authorities concerned; for details, refer to paragraph
9.002;

[Article 19](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a19.html),  [Rule
46](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r46.html)  
(ii) the applicant may amend the claims of the international application under
Article 19 by means of a communication addressed to the International Bureau;
for details, refer to paragraphs 9.004 to 9.011;

[Article 21](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a21.html),  [Rule
48](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r48.html)  
(iii) the international application is published by the International Bureau
(such publication usually takes place just after the expiration of 18 months
from the priority date); for details, refer to paragraphs 9.012 to 9.024;

[Article 20](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a20.html),  [Rule 43
_bis_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r43bis.html),  [Rule
44](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r44.html),  [Rule
47](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r47.html)  
(iv) copies of the international application, the international search report
and the written opinion of the International Searching Authority (in the form
of the international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter I of the
PCT; refer to (v) and (vi) below) pertaining to it are transmitted by the
International Bureau to the designated Offices; for details, refer to
paragraphs 9.028 and 9.029;

[Rule 44 _bis_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r44bis.html)  
(v) where a preliminary examination report (international preliminary report
on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT)) has not been established, the
International Bureau issues an international preliminary report on
patentability (Chapter I of the PCT) (refer to paragraph 7.031);

[Rule 44 _bis_.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r44bis.html) [Rule
44 _bis_.3](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r44bis.html)  
(vi) copies of that report are transmitted by the International Bureau to the
applicant, and to the designated Offices in accordance with Rule 93 _bis_ ,
but not before the expiration of 30 months from the priority date; the
International Bureau may also, if so requested by any designated State,
transmit a copy of a translation into English of the international preliminary
report on patentability (Chapter I of the PCT) to any interested designated
Office and to the applicant at the same time as it communicates the report to
that Office;

[Article 36](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a36.html),  [Rule
70](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r70.html),  [Rule
71](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r71.html),  [Rule
72](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r72.html),  [Rule
73](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r73.html),  [Rule
74](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r74.html)  
(vii) where a demand for international preliminary examination has been filed,
the International Bureau notifies the elected Offices, transmits the
international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT) and
related documents to them, and makes a translation of that report into English
(if required by any elected Office); for further details, refer to paragraphs
10.006, 10.045, 10.078 10.079 and 10.079A.

9.002. When and to whom does the International Bureau notify its receipt of
the record copy of the international application?

[Rule 24.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r24.html) [Rule
47.1(a-_bis_),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r47.html) [Rule 93
_bis_.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r93bis.html)  
When are designated Offices notified? How the International Bureau receives
the record copy and how it monitors that receipt is explained in paragraphs
6.057 and 6.058. The record copy of the international application should
normally reach the International Bureau before the expiration of 13 months
from the priority date. After receiving the record copy, the International
Bureau notifies the applicant, the receiving Office and the International
Searching Authority (unless it has informed the International Bureau that it
wishes not to be so notified) of the fact and of the date of receipt of the
record copy. All those notifications are effected promptly after the
International Bureau’s receipt of the record copy.

9.003. What should the applicant do when receiving the notification of receipt
of the record copy?

[Rule 24.2(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r24.html) [Rule
53.7,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r53.html) [Rule 90
_bis_.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90bis.html)  
The notification sent to the applicant (Form PCT/IB/301) contains the list of
the designated Offices. This notification will allow the applicant to check
whether the fact that certain designations (DE, JP and/or KR) were
specifically excluded in the request, and/or any subsequent withdrawal of
designations have been properly reflected. The applicant may wish to withdraw
the designation of any designated State at this point, or at any time prior to
the expiration of 30 months from the priority date.

AMENDMENT OF THE CLAIMS UNDER ARTICLE 19

9.004. When and how may the claims of the international application be amended
in the international phase?

[Article 19(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a19.html),  [Rule
46](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r46.html),  [Rule
49.5(a)(ii),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49.html) [Rule
49.5(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49.html) [Rule
49.5(c-_bis_)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49.html)  
The applicant is entitled, under Article 19, to one opportunity to amend the
claims of the international application in the international phase. (Further
opportunities to amend the claims, and also the description and the drawings,
are available during the international phase under Article 34 if, and only if,
the applicant files a demand for international preliminary examination – refer
to paragraphs 9.011, 10.024 to 10.028, and 10.067 to 10.071). Any amendment to
the claims, under Article 19, must be filed with the International Bureau –
not with the receiving Office or the International Searching Authority. The
amendments must be in the language in which the international application is
published (Arabic, Chinese, English, French, German, Japanese, Korean,
Portuguese, Russian or Spanish – refer to paragraphs 9.017 to 9.019). The
opportunity to make amendments under Article 19 is available after the
applicant has received the international search report and the written opinion
of the International Search Authority, and remains available until the end of
16 months from the priority date or two months after the transmittal (that is,
the date of mailing) of that report and opinion, whichever expires later.
Amendments received by the International Bureau after the time limit are still
accepted if they have been received before the technical preparations for
international publication have been completed. Amendments to the claims under
Article 19 are not allowed where the International Searching Authority has
declared, under Article 17(2)(a), that no international search report would be
established. However, it should be noted that, where an international search
report has been established but nevertheless also contains, in Box No. II, a
declaration under Article 17(2)(b) that certain claims were found
unsearchable, either because they relate to subject matter not required to be
searched by the Authority or because they relate to parts of the international
application that do not comply with the prescribed requirements to such an
extent that a meaningful international search could not be carried out,
amendments under Article 19 are allowed in relation to the claims that were
searched (refer to paragraph 7.014). Upon entry into the national phase, if
the claims have been amended under Article 19, a translation of both the
claims as filed and as amended (in the form of a translation of the complete
set of claims furnished under Rule 46.5(a) in replacement of all the claims
originally filed) and any statement may have to be furnished to the
designated/elected Offices (refer to National Chapters (Summaries)). (As to
amendments in the national phase, refer to paragraphs 5.111, 5.127 and 5.162,
the National Phase and National Chapters.) The submission of Article 19
amendments should comprise:

(i) a complete set of claims in replacement of the claims originally filed
(refer to paragraph 9.005)

(ii) a letter which must indicate the differences between the claims as filed
and those as amended plus the basis for the amendments (refer to paragraphs
9.005 to 9.006A)

(iii) an optional statement under Article 19 (refer to paragraphs 9.007 to
9.008)

9.005

[Rule 6.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r6.html) [Rule
46.5,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r46.html) [Section
205](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s205.html)  
When filing amendments to the claims under Article 19, the applicant is
required to file a sheet or sheets containing a complete set of claims in
replacement of the claims originally filed. The replacement sheet or sheets
must be accompanied by a letter drawing attention to the differences between
the claims as filed and the claims as amended. It must also indicate the basis
for the amendment to the claims with specific references to particular parts
of the application (description, claims, drawings) as originally filed (refer
to paragraph 9.006). Where an amendment results in the cancellation of an
entire sheet of the international application as originally filed, the
amendment (that is, the cancellation) is evidenced only by the letter
addressed to the International Bureau. Amendments may consist in the
cancellation of one or more entire claims, in the addition of one or more new
claims, or in the amendment of the text of one or more of the claims as filed.
All the claims appearing on a replacement sheet must be numbered in Arabic
numerals (corresponding to the order of the claims). Where a claim is
cancelled, no renumbering of the other claims is required. However, where the
applicant does renumber claims, they must be renumbered consecutively.

9.006. What should the accompanying letter contain?

[Rule 46.5,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r46.html) [Section
205](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s205.html)  
The letter, which must accompany the replacement sheets containing amendments
to the claims, must indicate firstly the differences between the claims as
filed and those as amended and secondly the basis for the amendments in the
application as filed. This should be done by stating, in connection with each
claim appearing in the international application, whether:

(i) the claim is unchanged,

(ii) the claim is cancelled;

(iii) the claim is new;

(iv) the claim replaces one or more claims as filed;

(v) the claim is the result of the division of a claim as filed, etc.

The replacement sheets containing the amended claims should not, however,
contain marked-up text; they should contain clean text only. This should be
followed by an indication of the basis for the amendments in the application
as filed. The basis for the amendments has to be indicated so that the
examiner may, by consulting those precise references in the application,
assess whether the amendments contain subject-matter which extends beyond the
disclosure of the application as filed. Therefore, non-specific indications
such as “refer to the description as filed” or “refer to the claims as filed”
are generally not considered sufficient for an indication of the basis for the
amendment. Example:

“Claim 1 amended; claims 2 to 7 unchanged; claims 8 and 9 amended; claims 10
to 14 cancelled; claims 15 to 17 unchanged; new claim 18 added.

(i) Basis for the amendment: Claim 1 has been amended at lines 4 and 11 to 14
and now indicates that the filter comprises a periodic backwashing means
serially coupled to a first and second chamber. The basis for this amendment
can be found in original claims 2 and 4 as filed.

(ii) Basis for the amendment: Concerning amended claims 8 and 9, the
indication of ‘quick-fire piston’ is in paragraph Nos. 2 and 19 in the
description as filed.

(iii) Basis for the amendment: Claim 18 is new, the indication is in drawing
No. III of the original application.”

9.006A. What happens where the international application is not in the same
language as the accompanying letter?

[Rule 92.2(d)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r92.html)  
The accompanying letter should be furnished in English or French. References
may, however, be made to the international application in the language of the
international application where to do so will facilitate the work of the
examiner in finding the reference, for example:

(i) Basis for the amendment: Concerning amended claim 2, the indication of
“請求項1に基づくパーキングアシストシステム” is in paragraph Nos. 23, 46 and 85 in the description
as filed.

9.007. What is a statement accompanying an amendment?

[Article 19(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a19.html),  [Rule
46.4,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r46.html) [Rule
48.2(a)(vi)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r48.html)  
Any amendment may be accompanied by a brief statement by the applicant
explaining the amendment and indicating any impact it might have on the
description and the drawings. Such a statement is published together with the
international application itself (refer to paragraphs 9.012 to 9.024).
Statements not referring to a specific amendment are not permitted. The
statement must not exceed 500 words if in English or when translated into
English. It may not contain disparaging comments on the international search
report or on the relevance of any of the citations contained in that report.
References to certain citations in the report may be made only in connection
with an amendment made to a specific claim. The statement must be in the
language in which the international application is published (refer to
paragraphs 9.017 and 9.018).

9.008

[Rule 46.4(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r46.html) [Rule
48.2(a)(vi)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r48.html)  
A statement explaining the amendment is not to be confused with, and must be
clearly distinguished from, the letter indicating the differences between the
claims as filed and those as amended and the basis for the amendment (refer to
paragraph 9.006). It is also distinct from the statement concerning amendments
which must be included in a demand for international preliminary examination
(refer to paragraphs 10.024 to 10.027). It must therefore be identified as
such by a heading “Statement under Article 19(1).” Where the statement does
not comply with the requirements, it is neither published by the International
Bureau nor communicated to the designated Offices.

9.009. May the amended claims include new matter?

[Article 19(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a19.html),
[Article 19(3)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a19.html),  [Rule
66.2(a)(iv)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html)  
The PCT provides that amendments are not to go beyond the disclosure in the
international application as filed. This requirement is not directly
enforceable during Chapter I of the international phase, but failure to comply
with it may have adverse consequences for the applicant during the
international preliminary examination and in the national phase (refer to
paragraphs 10.070 and 11.047 below).

9.009A. What happens where the replacement sheets were not accompanied by a
letter?

[Rule 46.5(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r46.html) [Rule
70.2(c-_bis_)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r70.html)  
The PCT requires that replacement sheets filed with Article 19 amendments must
be accompanied by a letter indicating the basis for the amendment to the
claims (refer to paragraph 9.006). Substantive compliance with this
requirement is not checked during the international phase unless the applicant
requests international preliminary examination but failure to comply with it
may have adverse consequences for the applicant during international
preliminary examination and in the national phase (also refer to paragraph
11.047A below).

9.010. Should a copy of amendments under Article 19 be filed with the
International Preliminary Examining Authority?

[Rule 53.9(a)(i),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r53.html) [Rule
55.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r55.html) [Rule
62.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r62.html) [Rule
62.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r62.html)  
If the applicant submits a demand for international preliminary examination,
he/she should file a copy of the amendments to the claims under Article 19,
the letter which accompanied the amended claims and the statement under
Article 19(1) (if any) with the International Preliminary Examining Authority
with the demand (if the amendment has already been filed), or at the same time
as filing the amendment with the International Bureau (if the amendment is
filed after the demand). Where the International Preliminary Examining
Authority requires a translation of the international application under Rule
55.2, the applicant should also furnish a translation of any amendments made
under Article 19 and any letter that accompanied the amendments if he/she
wishes those amendments to be taken into account for international preliminary
examination. The International Bureau transmits a copy of any amendment,
accompanying letter and any statement under Article 19 received prior to the
filing of the demand to the International Preliminary Examining Authority
unless that Authority indicates that it has already received a copy. If an
amendment, the accompanying letter and any statement under Article 19 are
received after the demand has been filed, the International Bureau transmits a
copy to the International Preliminary Examining Authority in any event; but
timely filing of a copy of these documents by the applicant direct with that
Authority ensures that the international preliminary examination will proceed
without undue delay or uncertainty. Refer to paragraphs 10.024 to 10.028 in
connection with the demand form.

9.011. In what circumstances should the claims be amended under Article 19?

[Article 34(2)(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a34.html),
[Rule 48.2(f),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r48.html) [Rule
66.1(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html)  
Since any amendments of the claims under Article 19 are published with the
international application (refer to paragraph 9.015), such amendment may be
useful to the applicant if there is a reason to better define the scope of the
claims for the purposes of provisional protection in those designated States
whose national law provides for such protection (refer to paragraph 9.024). It
is to be noted that, where international preliminary examination takes place,
the applicant has the right under Article 34(2)(b) to file amendments to the
claims (as well as to the description and the drawings) with the International
Preliminary Examining Authority, regardless of whether or not he/she has filed
amendments to the claims under Article 19 with the International Bureau (refer
to paragraphs 10.024, 10.028, 10.067 to 10.071, and 11.045 to 11.047). There
is therefore normally no need to amend the claims under Article 19 where a
demand for international preliminary examination is filed, unless there is a
particular reason related to provisional protection or otherwise for amending
the claims before international publication.

INTERNATIONAL PUBLICATION

9.012. When and how is the international application published by the
International Bureau?

International applications are published by the International Bureau except in
any of the following cases:

[Rule 20.4](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r20.html)  
(i) if the international application is not accorded an international filing
date by the receiving Office (refer to paragraphs 6.005 to 6.012);

[Article 21(5)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a21.html)  
(ii) if the international application is considered withdrawn before the
technical preparations for publication have been completed;

[Article 21(5)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a21.html)  
(iii) if the international application is withdrawn by the applicant (refer to
paragraphs 11.048 and 11.049) before the technical preparations for
publication have been completed;

[Article 64(3)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a64.html)  
(iv) if, at the time of the completion of the technical preparations for
publication, the only designated State remaining is the United States of
America (since the United States of America made a declaration under Article
64(3)(a)), unless any of the exceptions specified in Article 64(3)(c) applies.

9.013. When does international publication take place?

[Article 21(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a21.html),  [Rule
48.4,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r48.html) [Section
113](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s113.html)  
International publication takes place promptly after the expiration of 18
months from the priority date. However, when the applicant asks the
International Bureau to publish the international application earlier, the
International Bureau does so. If the applicant asks for early publication and
the international search report, or the declaration referred to in Article
17(2)(a), is not available for publication with the international application,
a special fee, the amount of which is indicated in Annex B (IB), is payable to
the International Bureau. Normally, international publication takes place
every Thursday, except when the International Bureau is closed for business.
In such cases, the publication date will be announced in the PCT Newsletter.

9.014. When are the technical preparations for international publication
completed?

The technical preparations for publication are completed by the 15th day prior
to the date of publication. However, any change that should be taken into
consideration for publication on a specific publication date should reach the
International Bureau at least one day before the 15-day time limit to allow
the International Bureau to process the change. The last day for receipt of
such changes will therefore always be on Tuesday at midnight (Central European
time (CET)), i.e. 16 days before the publication date when publication falls
on a Thursday (or 17 days before the publication date when publication
exceptionally takes place on a Friday because the International Bureau is
closed for business on a Thursday).

9.015. What constitutes international publication?

[Article 21(3)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a21.html),  [Rule
48.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r48.html) [Rule
48.2(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r48.html) [Rule
48.2(f),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r48.html) [Rule
48.2(g),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r48.html) [Rule
48.2(h),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r48.html) [Section
404](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s404.html),  [Section
406(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s406.html)  
Publication of international applications filed under the PCT takes place
wholly in electronic form. The published international application will
include any declaration filed under Rule 4.17 and, if available at the time of
publication, the international search report or declaration by the
International Searching Authority to the effect that no international search
report will be established, and also any amendment, including any statement,
under Article 19. Where the time limit for amending the claims has not expired
at the time of the completion of the technical preparations for publication,
the international application is published with an annotation accordingly, and
any amendment received within the time limit is published later. Similarly, if
the international search report or declaration by the International Searching
Authority is not available, the international application is published with an
annotation accordingly and the report or declaration is published separately
after it has been received by the International Bureau. Each published
international application is assigned an international publication number
consisting of the code “WO” followed by an indication of the year and a serial
number (for example, WO 2004/123456). For further details governing
international publication, refer to Article 21 and Rule 48.

9.016. Where is my international application published?

[Rule 86.1(i),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r86.html) [Section
407(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s407.html)  
On the same date the international application is published, the bibliographic
data, the title of the invention, the abstract and a characteristic drawing
(if any) of each published international application are made available on
PATENTSCOPE.

9.016A. Can the applicant request that certain information be omitted from
international publication?

[Rule 26.4,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26.html) [Rule
48.2(l)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r48.html)  
The applicant can make a reasoned request to the International Bureau to omit
certain information from publication. The applicant should preferably use Form
PCT/IB/384 for such a request, accompanied by replacement sheets from which
the relevant information has been omitted, except for cases where the omission
of information would result in the omission of an entire sheet, and an
accompanying letter drawing attention to the differences between the replaced
sheet(s) and the replacement sheet(s). In the request, the applicant must also
explain why the information does not obviously serve the purpose of informing
the public about the international application, that the publication of such
information would clearly prejudice the personal or economic interests of a
person and that there is no prevailing public interest to have access to that
information. The request for omission of information from publication must be
received by the International Bureau prior to the completion of technical
preparations for international publication (refer to paragraph 9.014).

If the International Bureau finds that the reasoned request satisfies all of
the above-mentioned criteria, it will omit that information from international
publication (and/or public file access, refer to paragraph 11.073A) and inform
the applicant of its decision (form PCT/IB/385). If the International Bureau
decides not to omit the requested information from international publication,
it will inform the applicant accordingly (form PCT/IB/386).

Where the International Bureau has omitted information from international
publication, and that information is also contained in the file of the
international application held by the receiving Office, the International
Searching Authority, the Authority specified for supplementary search or the
International Preliminary Examining Authority, the International Bureau will
also promptly notify that Office or Authority accordingly, so that they do not
make that information publicly available either.

9.017. In what language is the international application published?

[Article 21(4)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a21.html),  [Rule
45.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r45.html) [Rule
48.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r48.html) [Section 406
_bis_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s406bis.html)  
If the international application is filed in Arabic, Chinese, English, French,
German, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese, Russian or Spanish, it is published in
the language in which it was filed. Where the language of publication is
Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese, Russian or
Spanish, the International Bureau prepares English translations of the title
of the invention, the abstract and the international search report (or the
declaration referred to in paragraph 7.014), and includes the translations in
the published international application. Where the applicant wishes to propose
an English translation of the title of the invention, she/he may furnish the
suggested translation to the International Bureau before the expiration of 14
months from the priority date. The International Bureau shall, to the extent
possible, take the suggested translation into account in the preparation of
the translation. The International Bureau also prepares, where applicable,
French translations of the title and the abstract. The title and abstract are
published on PATENTSCOPE.

9.018

[Rule 48.3(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r48.html)  
If the international application is filed in a language which is a language
other than Arabic, Chinese, English, French, German, Japanese, Korean,
Portuguese, Russian or Spanish and is a language accepted by the International
Searching Authority for international search, the applicant must furnish a
translation of the international application into a language of publication
accepted by the receiving Office for that purpose. The international
application will be published in that language of translation only (refer to
paragraphs 6.020 to 6.023).

9.019

If the international application is filed in a language which is neither a
language of publication (Arabic, Chinese, English, French, German, Japanese,
Korean, Portuguese, Russian or Spanish) nor a language accepted by the
International Searching Authority for international search, it is published in
the language of the translation furnished by the applicant (refer to
paragraphs 6.013 to 6.020).

9.020

[Rule 86.2(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r86.html)  
The bibliographic data, titles and abstracts, and any figure which appears on
the front page of each published international application are published in
English and in French on PATENTSCOPE.

9.021. How can copies of the published international application be obtained?

[Rule 86.1(i),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r86.html) [Rule
86.4](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r86.html)  
In addition to downloading the published international application from the
WIPO website anyone may obtain a copy of the published international
application by ordering it from the International Bureau, preferably referring
to its international publication number (if available).

9.022. How can the published international application in electronic form be
accessed?

[Rule 86.1(i),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r86.html) [Rule
86.4](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r86.html)  
The published international application in electronic form is available on
PATENTSCOPE.

9.023. How can copies of the priority document be obtained?

[Rule 4.10(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule
17.2(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r17.html)  
Third parties who wish to receive a copy of the priority document may apply to
the Office with which the earlier application was filed, to certain designated
Offices or to the International Bureau. The International Bureau makes copies
of priority documents, after international publication of the international
application available on PATENTSCOPE, or on paper upon request and subject to
reimbursement of the cost. However, the International Bureau does not furnish
such copies if, prior to the international publication, the international
application was withdrawn, or the relevant priority claim was withdrawn or was
considered not to have been made, or the relevant declaration of the priority
claim was cancelled.

9.023A. How can international publication be prevented?

[Article 21(5)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a21.html),  [Rule
90 _bis_.1(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90bis.html)  
The applicant may prevent international publication by withdrawing the
international application, provided that the applicant submits a notice of
withdrawal and that the notice of withdrawal reaches the International Bureau
before the completion of technical preparations for that publication (refer to
paragraph 9.014). It is strongly recommended to send the notice of withdrawal
directly to the International Bureau through ePCT (signing in with strong
authentication at <https://pct.wipo.int/ePCT>), preferably using the
corresponding Action. Using an ePCT Action will ensure that the international
application is immediately flagged as withdrawn in the International Bureau’s
processing system and will prevent publication if submitted before the
completion of technical preparations for international publication. In the
rare situation where ePCT cannot be used, an alternative document upload
system is available at
<https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/UploadDocument.xhtml>; the notice of
withdrawal may state that the withdrawal is to be effective only on the
condition that international publication can still be prevented. In such a
case the withdrawal is not effective if this condition cannot be met – that
is, if the technical preparations for international publication have already
been completed. The same effect may possibly be achieved if, for example
through non-payment of the applicable fees, the international application is
considered withdrawn and the receiving Office so declares (Form PCT/RO/117).
Issuance of this declaration by the receiving Office alone, however, will not
prevent international publication unless the declaration is also received by
the International Bureau before completion of technical preparations for
international publication (Rule 29.1(v)). International publication may be
postponed by withdrawing the priority claim as outlined in paragraphs 11.056
and 11.057.

9.024. What are the legal effects of international publication?

[Article 29](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a29.html)  
Article 29 has the effect of ensuring, with certain qualifications, that
provisional protection is available after the international publication of an
international application in the same way as it is after national publication
of unexamined national applications. The qualifications are such as to enable
Contracting States to make such protection conditional on the furnishing of
translations (in some circumstances), on the expiration of 18 months from the
priority date, and/or on receipt by the designated Office of a copy of the
international application as published under the PCT. For further details,
refer to Article 29. Annexes B indicate what the position is in each
Contracting State.

9.025. Can access be gained at the International Bureau to the file of an
international application?

[Rule 94](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r94.html)  
For international applications filed before 1 July 1998, the applicant or any
person authorized by the applicant may, subject to reimbursement of the cost
of the service, obtain copies from the International Bureau of any document
contained in its file. For international applications filed on or after 1 July
1998, the International Bureau makes certain documents in its file available
on PATENTSCOPE together with the published international application. In
addition, it will, at the request of any person but not before the
international publication of the international application and subject to
Article 38, furnish, upon reimbursement of the cost of the service, copies of
any document contained in its file, except for information which has been
omitted from international publication or public file access following a
reasoned request by the applicant (refer to paragraphs 11.072 to 11.074 for
details concerning the confidentiality of international applications).

9.026. [Deleted]

9.027. Can I get access to a copy of the international preliminary report on
patentability (Chapter II of the PCT)?

[Rule 94.1(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r94.html)  
Concerning access to the international preliminary report on patentability
(Chapter II of the PCT), the International Bureau, if so requested by an
elected Office, makes copies of that report available on PATENTSCOPE to third
parties on behalf of that Office, but not before the expiration of 30 months
from the priority date. A number of elected Offices have made this request to
the International Bureau, refer to
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/access_iper.html>; similarly, the
International Bureau also makes related documents received from the
International Preliminary Examining Authority under PCT Rule 71.1(b) available
on PATENTSCOPE (refer to paragraph 10.079A).

COMMUNICATION OF COPIES TO THE DESIGNATED OFFICES

9.028. How and when do the designated Offices receive copies of the
international application?

[Article 20(1)(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a20.html),
[Article 22(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a22.html),  [Rule
47.1(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r47.html) [Rule
47.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r47.html) [Rule
47.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r47.html) [Rule 93
_bis_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r93bis.html)  
Subject to what is said in this paragraph and in paragraph 9.029, the
International Bureau communicates a copy of the international application in
the language in which the international application is published, to each
designated Office upon their request and at the time specified by that Office,
pursuant to Rule 93 _bis_ , but not prior to the international publication.
Where the language in which the international application is published is
different from the language in which it was filed, the International Bureau
will furnish to any designated Office, upon the request of that Office, a copy
of that application in the language in which it was filed. In practice, the
communication is effected by sending a copy of the published international
application (for details concerning the contents of published international
applications, refer to paragraph 9.015). The International Bureau also sends,
promptly after the expiration of 19 months from the priority date in respect
of designated Offices which do not apply the 30 month time limit, and again
promptly after the expiration of 28 months from the priority date in respect
of designated Offices which do apply the 30 month time limit, a notice (Form
PCT/IB/308 (First Notice) (19 months) and Form PCT/IB/308 (Second and
Supplementary Notice) (28 months)) to the applicant informing him/her of the
Offices to which the communication has been effected and of the date of such
communication. The notices must be accepted by all designated Offices as
conclusive evidence that the communication has duly taken place on the date
specified in the notices. On receiving the notices, the applicant knows that
he/she does not have to send a copy of the international application to any of
the designated Offices indicated on them as having been sent the
communication.

9.029. May I submit a copy of my international application to the designated
Offices before international publication?

[Article 13](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a13.html),  [Article
23(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a23.html),  [Article
40(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a40.html),  [Rule
31](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r31.html),  [Rule
47.4,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r47.html) [Rule
61.2(d)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r61.html)  
A copy of the international application (albeit without the international
search report) is communicated by the International Bureau, prior to the
communication referred to in the preceding paragraphs, to any designated
Office which so requests; this transmittal may not be done before the
expiration of one year from the priority date. It should be noted that, to
date, no national or regional Office has asked for a copy of all the
international applications designating it to be the subject of such an early
communication. If the applicant wishes, he/she may at any time transmit, or
ask the International Bureau to transmit, a copy of the international
application to any designated Office. Such special transmittal by the
International Bureau requires the payment of a fee, the amount of which is
indicated in Annex B (IB). Further details are to be found in Article 13 and
Rule 31. It is to be noted that transmittal in this way does not, unless
expressly requested by the applicant, entitle the designated Office to start
its processing of the international application. If, however, the applicant
makes an express request to a designated or elected Office (under Article
23(2) or 40(2), respectively) for early commencement of national processing,
the International Bureau then promptly effects the communication to the Office
concerned upon request by the applicant or the designated or elected Office.

##  CHAPTER 10: INTERNATIONAL PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION UNDER CHAPTER II OF THE
PCT

GENERAL

10.001. What is international preliminary examination?

[Article 31(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a31.html),
[Article 31(4)(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a31.html),
[Article 32(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a32.html),
[Article 33(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a33.html),  [Rule
53.7](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r53.html)  
International preliminary examination of an international application may be
requested under Chapter II of the PCT to obtain “a preliminary and non-binding
opinion on the questions whether the claimed invention appears to be novel, to
involve an inventive step (to be non-obvious), and to be industrially
applicable” (Article 33(1)). It is carried out by an “International
Preliminary Examining Authority” at the request - called “demand” - of the
applicant, for use before the “elected” Offices, that is, the designated
Offices which are elected by the applicant for that purpose, (note that the
filing of a demand constitutes the election of all Contracting States which
are designated and bound by Chapter II of the Treaty). Not every applicant who
has the right to file an international application has the right to demand
international preliminary examination; the following paragraphs explain who
may make a demand.

10.002. What are the main effects of the international preliminary
examination?

[Article 39(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a39.html),
[Article 40(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a40.html),
[Article 64(2)(a)(i)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a64.html),
[Article 64(2)(a)(ii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a64.html)  
Since the criteria on which the international preliminary examination is based
(refer to paragraph 10.001) correspond to internationally accepted criteria
for patentability, the international preliminary report on patentability
(Chapter II of the PCT) gives the applicant the opportunity to evaluate the
chances of obtaining patents in elected Offices before incurring the expense
and trouble of entering the national phase. Moreover, the fact that the
carrying out of such an examination has been demanded has the result that the
national phase in each elected State is normally delayed until the expiration
of 30 months from the priority date (longer times apply in some elected
Offices), provided that the demand is submitted before the expiration of 19
months from the priority date (Note, however, that the 30-month time limit
applies in any case, to all but two designated Offices even if they have not
been elected within the 19-month time limit; refer to paragraph 5.005 for
details). For further details, refer to paragraph 10.010, and also the
National Chapters, (Summaries).

10.003. Can a third party access information contained in the file of the
International Preliminary Examining Authority?

[Article 38](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a38.html),  [Rule
94](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r94.html)  
With the exception of the fact that a demand has been filed and the names of
those designated States for which a notice of withdrawal has been submitted to
the International Bureau or to the International Preliminary Examining
Authority are available on PATENTSCOPE, the international preliminary
examination procedure remains confidential between the applicant, the
International Preliminary Examining Authority and the International Bureau. In
respect of international applications filed before 1 July 1998, a copy of the
international preliminary examination report, when it has been established, is
sent by the International Bureau to each elected Office as well as the
applicant, but is not available from the International Preliminary Examining
Authority or the International Bureau to any other persons or Offices. In
respect of international applications filed on or after 1 July 1998, copies of
all documents contained in the file of the International Preliminary Examining
Authority, except for information which has been omitted from international
publication or public access following a reasoned request by the applicant
(refer to paragraphs 9.016A and 11.073A), may be obtained by third parties via
those elected Offices whose national law provides for access to the files of
national applications (also refer to paragraphs 10.080 and 10.081, and 11.072
to 11.074). Concerning the availability of the international preliminary
examination report and related documents from the International Bureau, refer
to paragraph 9.027.

MAKING A DEMAND FOR INTERNATIONAL PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION

10.004. On what conditions may a demand for international preliminary
examination be submitted?

[Article 31(2)(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a31.html),
[Rule 18.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r18.html) [Rule
54](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r54.html)  
There are two conditions which have to be fulfilled for a demand to be
submitted. First, the applicant - or, if there are two or more applicants, at
least one of them - must be a resident or a national of a Contracting State
bound by Chapter II of the PCT. Second, the international application must
have been filed with the receiving Office of, or acting for, a Contracting
State bound by Chapter II. Annexes A and B indicate whether or not each
Contracting State is bound by Chapter II. Potential applicants who have
residence and/or nationality in more than one Contracting State, and thus
generally have a choice of receiving Office, should therefore file the
international application with a receiving Office of or acting for a
Contracting State bound by Chapter II if they wish to take advantage later of
the international preliminary examination procedure. However, it should be
noted that the right to make a demand may be lost if, following a change in
the applicants named in the international application, there is no longer, at
the time the demand is made, at least one applicant who is a resident or
national of a Contracting State bound by Chapter II. The concepts of residence
and nationality are defined in Rule 18.1 (refer to paragraph 5.023). If the
applicant does not have the right to make a demand, the demand is considered
not to have been submitted.

10.005. Which States may be elected?

[Article 31(4)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a31.html),
[Article 64(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a64.html),  [Rule
53.7,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r53.html) [Rule 90
_bis_.4](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90bis.html)  
In relation to demands for international preliminary examination filed on, or
after, 1 January 2004, all Contracting States which are designated in the
international application and are bound by Chapter II of the PCT are elected.
The printed demand form (available on the WIPO website at:
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/docs/forms/demand/ed-demand.pdf>) contains a pre-
printed statement that the filing of the demand constitutes the election of
all Contracting States which are designated and are bound by Chapter II of the
Treaty (refer to paragraph 10.029). Please note that States whose designation
has been withdrawn cannot subsequently be elected. If the applicant does not
wish to elect a particular State, the election of that State may be withdrawn
after a demand has been filed. It should be also noted that withdrawal of the
designation of a State which has been elected shall entail withdrawal of the
corresponding election.

10.006. Where should the demand for international preliminary examination be
submitted?

[Article 31(3)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a31.html), [Article
31(6)(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a31.html), [Article
32(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a32.html), [Rule
59](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r59.html)  
The demand must be made separately from the international application, and be
submitted directly to an International Preliminary Examining Authority which
is competent to carry out international preliminary examination on the
international application concerned. Each receiving Office (except the
International Bureau as receiving Office - refer to paragraph 5.008) specifies
one or more International Preliminary Examining Authorities as competent to
carry out international preliminary examination on international applications
filed with it. In addition, different International Preliminary Examining
Authorities may be competent in relation to an international application
depending on the language in which the international application was filed and
on which International Searching Authority carried out the international
search. Where several International Preliminary Examining Authorities are
competent in relation to a particular international application, having regard
to which receiving Office the international application was filed with and the
language of the international application, the applicant may choose between
them. Where the international application is filed with the International
Bureau as receiving Office, the competent International Preliminary Examining
Authority (or Authorities) is that (or are those) which would have been
competent if the international application had been filed with a competent
national (or regional) Office as receiving Office. The International
Preliminary Examining Authority or Authorities competent for international
applications filed with each national (or regional) Office acting as receiving
Office, and the languages accepted for international preliminary examination
by each International Preliminary Examining Authority, may be ascertained by
consulting Annexes C and E. Finally, within the framework of the respective
agreements relating to the functioning of certain Offices as International
Preliminary Examining Authorities, these Authorities may provide for
limitations of their competence in respect of certain international
applications. The consolidated texts of these Agreements are available on the
WIPO website at the following address:
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/access/isa_ipea_agreements.html>. For more
detailed information, refer to Annex E.

10.007. What happens if a demand for international preliminary examination is
not submitted to the competent Authority?

[Rule 59.3(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r59.html) [Rule
59.3(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r59.html) [Rule
59.3(e)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r59.html)  
If a demand is submitted to a receiving Office, an International Searching
Authority, an International Preliminary Examining Authority which is not
competent for the international preliminary examination of the international
application, or the International Bureau, that Office or that Authority or the
International Bureau, as the case may be, will mark on it the date of receipt,
which will be considered to be the date on which the demand was received on
behalf of the competent International Preliminary Examining Authority.

10.008

[Rule 59.3(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r59.html) [Rule
59.3(f)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r59.html)  
When a demand is filed with a receiving Office, an International Searching
Authority, or an International Preliminary Examining Authority which is not
competent for the international preliminary examination of the international
application, that Office or Authority may send the demand either directly to
the competent International Preliminary Examining Authority, or to the
International Bureau which will in turn forward the demand to the competent
International Preliminary Examining Authority.

10.009

[Rule 59.3(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r59.html) [Rule
59.3(d)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r59.html)  
If two or more International Preliminary Examining Authorities are competent,
the applicant will be invited by the Office or Authority to which the demand
was submitted, or by the International Bureau, as the case may be, to
indicate, within the time limit applicable under Rule 54 _bis_.1(a) or within
15 days from the date of the invitation, whichever is later, the competent
International Preliminary Examining Authority to which the demand should be
transmitted. Where the applicant furnishes that indication, the demand will
promptly be transmitted to the competent International Preliminary Examining
Authority. Where no indication is so furnished, the demand will be considered
not to have been submitted, and the Office or Authority to which the demand
was submitted, or the International Bureau, as the case may, will declare that
the demand is considered not to have been submitted.

10.010. At what stage of the procedure should the demand for international
preliminary examination be submitted?

[Article 39(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a39.html),  [Rule
54 _bis_.1(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r54bis.html) [Rule
69.1(a)(iii),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r69.html) [Rule
69.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r69.html)  
A demand may be submitted at any time prior to the expiration of the following
time limits, whichever expires later:

(i) three months from the date of transmittal to the applicant of the
international search report and the written opinion of the International
Searching Authority, or of the declaration, referred to in Article 17(2)(a)
that no international search report will be established; or

(ii) 22 months from the priority date.

In addition, in respect of some Offices (refer to paragraph 5.005), in order
to secure the full effect of the demand – including the delaying of the
national phase until 30 months from the priority date – it must be submitted
before the expiration of 19 months from the priority date. Since international
preliminary examination will normally not start before the international
search report and the written opinion of the International Searching Authority
are available (refer to paragraphs 10.051 to 10.055), the applicant will
normally wish to take that report and opinion into account before deciding
whether to proceed further for patent protection. Note, however, that the 19
month time limit will expire regardless of whether the establishment of the
international search report and the written opinion of the International
Searching Authority are delayed. On the other hand, the length of time
available for the international preliminary examination depends on the
earliest possible submission of the demand after the international search
report and the written opinion of the International Searching Authority are
available, since the international preliminary report on patentability
(Chapter II of the PCT) must in most cases be established before the
expiration of 28 months from the priority date, or six months from the time
provided for the start of the international preliminary examination, or six
months from the date of receipt by the International Preliminary Examining
Authority of the translation furnished by the applicant, if applicable,
whichever period expires last (refer to paragraph 10.074). The more time
available for the international preliminary examination, the better will be
the result and quality which can be expected. Therefore, a demand should be
filed as soon as possible after the applicant’s evaluation of the
international search report and the written opinion of the International
Searching Authority has shown that it is worthwhile to pursue the
international application further.

TRANSLATION OF INTERNATIONAL APPLICATION FOR THE PURPOSES OF INTERNATIONAL
PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION

10.011. What happens if the international application was filed or published
in a language which is not accepted by the International Preliminary Examining
Authority?

[Rule 55.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r55.html)  
Where neither the language in which the international application was filed
nor the language in which the international application is published is
accepted by the International Preliminary Examining Authority that is to carry
out the international preliminary examination, the applicant must furnish with
the demand a translation of the international application into a language
which is both a language accepted by that Authority, and a language of
publication. No such translation is required where the International Searching
Authority and the International Preliminary Examining Authority are part of
the same national Office or intergovernmental organization, in which case the
international preliminary examination will be carried out on the basis of the
translation furnished for the purposes of the international search (refer to
paragraphs 6.014 to 6.017). Details about the languages accepted for
international preliminary examination by the various International Preliminary
Examining Authorities appear in Annex E. Refer to paragraph 9.010 in
connection with the need to file a translation of amendments under Article 19.

THE DEMAND

10.012. What requirements as to form, contents and language must the demand
for international preliminary examination comply with?

[Article 31(3)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a31.html),  [Rule
53](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r53.html),  [Section
102(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s102.html),  [Section
102(i)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s102.html)  
The demand must either be made on a printed form to be filled in with the
required indications or be presented as a computer print-out complying with
the Administrative Instructions. To facilitate preparation of the demand, the
International Bureau has prepared downloadable PDF (portable document format)
versions on its website at <https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/forms/>. The editable
PDF version of the form (PCT/IPEA/401) may be completed using a computer or
printed out and filled in using a typewriter. The demand, and instructions on
how to complete the editable version, is available in Arabic, Chinese,
English, French, German, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese, Russian and Spanish.

Sample filled-in forms are also available from the above website address.
Copies of forms may also be obtained, free of charge, from the receiving
Office or the International Preliminary Examining Authority.

The demand may also be filed online by using the ePCT service (signing in with
strong authentication at <https://pct.wipo.int/ePCT>).

10.013

[Rule 53](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r53.html),  [Rule
55.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r55.html)  
The completed demand must identify the applicant and the international
application to which it relates. The demand contains a petition that the
international application be the subject of international preliminary
examination. The filing of the demand constitutes the automatic election of
all Contracting States which are designated and which are bound by Chapter II
of the PCT - refer to paragraph 10.029 and the sample filled-in demand form,
at the addresses indicated in paragraph 10.012). It must, where applicable,
contain a statement concerning amendments, on the basis of which the
international preliminary examination will start (refer to paragraphs 10.025
and 10.026) and an indication of the language in which international
preliminary examination will be carried out. The demand must be in the
language of the international application or, if the international application
has been filed in a language other than the language in which it is published,
in the language of publication. However, where a translation of the
international application is required because the International Preliminary
Examining Authority accepts neither the language in which the international
application is filed nor the language in which the international application
is published (refer to paragraphs 5.013 and 10.011), the demand must be in the
language of that translation. The demand must be signed (refer to paragraphs
10.031, 10.032, and 11.027). Details for the filling in of the demand form are
given below in respect of each Box of that form. Where more than one
International Preliminary Examining Authority is competent in relation to the
international application (refer to paragraph 10.006), the Authority chosen by
the applicant, and with which the demand is filed, should be identified,
preferably by an indication of the name or two-letter code of the Authority
(refer to Annex K), at the top of the first sheet of the demand form in the
space provided for that purpose.

Box No. I: Identification of the International Application

10.014. What are the requirements with respect to the identification of the
international application?

[Rule 53.6](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r53.html)  
The international application must be identified by its international
application number, filing date and title. If the international application
number is not known to the applicant at the time of filing of the demand, the
name of the receiving Office with which the international application was
filed must be indicated. The title of the invention must be the same as that
which appears in the published international application (that is, the same as
that indicated in the request, unless it was modified by the International
Searching Authority - refer to paragraph 7.022).

10.015

It is recommended that the applicant indicate the file reference, if any, not
exceeding 25 characters in length, in the box provided for this purpose on the
first sheet of the demand form (refer to paragraphs 5.017 and 5.105 in
relation to the request and the description).

10.016

Indication of the priority date on the demand is not mandatory, but is
recommended since it will assist the International Preliminary Examining
Authority to ascertain promptly whether or not the demand was filed before the
expiration of 19 months from the priority date.

Box No. II: Applicant(s)

10.017. Who may file a demand for international preliminary examination?

[Article 31(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a31.html),  [Rule
4](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html),  [Rule
53.4,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r53.html) [Rule
53.5,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r53.html) [Rule
54.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r54.html) [Rule
54.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r54.html) [Rule
60.1(a-_bis_)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r60.html)  
If there is a sole applicant, that applicant must be a resident or national of
a Contracting State bound by Chapter II of the PCT. If there are two or more
applicants, it is sufficient that one of them be a resident or national of a
Contracting State bound by Chapter II, regardless of the elected State(s) for
which each applicant is indicated. The detailed requirements for the various
indications required in connection with each applicant (full names and
addresses, telephone, facsimile and/or e-mail address, nationality and
residence) are the same as those required under Rule 4 in connection with the
request (refer to paragraphs 5.023 to 5.034). Where the applicant is
registered with the International Preliminary Examining Authority, the number
or other indication under which the applicant is so registered may also be
indicated in Box No. II. Note that any inventor who is not also an applicant
is not indicated in the demand. Where a question of the applicant’s residence
or nationality arises, the International Preliminary Examining Authority will
request the receiving Office or, where the international application was filed
with the International Bureau as receiving Office, the national Office of, or
acting for, the Contracting State concerned to decide the question and will
inform the applicant of such request. The applicant has the opportunity to
submit arguments relating to the issue of residence or nationality directly to
the Office concerned, which will decide the question promptly.

10.018. Who should be indicated if there has been a change in the name or
person of the applicant?

[Rule 92 _bis_.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r92bis.html)  
If the recording of a change in the name or person has been requested under
Rule 92 _bis_.1 before the demand was filed (refer to paragraphs 11.018 to
11.022), it is the applicant(s) on record at the time when the demand is filed
who must be indicated in the demand.

10.018A. How can the applicant receive notifications via e-mail?

If an e-mail address is indicated in Box No. II of the demand form, the
International Bureau, and the International Preliminary Examining Authority,
if it provides such a service, will send notifications to the applicant by
e-mail, thus avoiding processing or postal delays. Where the agent or common
representative has also indicated an e-mail address, e-mail notifications will
only be sent to the appointed agent or common representative (refer to
paragraph 10.022). Note that not all Authorities will send such notifications
by e-mail (refer to Annex B). If no e-mail address is provided, or if the
applicant chooses to receive notifications exclusively by postal mail, by
marking the corresponding check-box in Box No. II, or in the cases where the
International Preliminary Examining Authority does not provide for sending
notifications by e-mail, notifications will be sent to the given mailing
address exclusively by postal mail. It is the applicant’s responsibility to
keep any e-mail address details up-to-date and to ensure that incoming e-mails
are not blocked, for any reason, on the recipient’s side. Changes to the
e-mail address indicated should be requested to be recorded, preferably
directly at the International Bureau, under Rule 92 _bis_.

Box No. III: Agent or Common Representative

10.019. Does the applicant have to be represented by an agent before the
International Preliminary Examining Authority?

No, the applicant is not obliged to, but may be represented by an agent. In
most cases, it is highly advisable to use an agent (refer to paragraph 1.004).

10.020. May the applicant be represented by an agent before the International
Preliminary Examining Authority?

[Article 49](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a49.html),  [Rule
2.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r2.html) [Rule
90.1(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html) [Rule
90.1(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html)  
Yes, the applicant may be represented by the agent who represented him/her for
the filing of the international application (if any) or by another agent
having the right to practice before the receiving Office with which the
international application was filed (refer to Annex C). The applicant may also
be represented by an agent appointed specifically for the purposes of the
international preliminary examination procedure and chosen from among those
persons who have the right, according to the Rules applicable in the national
or regional Office acting as International Preliminary Examining Authority, to
practice before that Office (refer to National Chapters, (Summaries)). Refer
to paragraphs 11.001 to 11.014 for more information about representation.

10.021. When and how may an agent be appointed for the purposes of the
procedure concerning the international preliminary examination?

[Rule 53.2(a)(ii),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r53.html) [Rule
53.5,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r53.html) [Rule
90](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html)  
If an agent has already been appointed for the filing of the international
application, that agent may also represent the applicant for the purposes of
the international preliminary examination procedure and may sign the demand on
behalf of the applicant. Alternatively, a different agent or an additional
agent may be designated in the demand for international preliminary
examination or in a separate power of attorney. The detailed requirements for
the various indications required in connection with each agent (full names and
addresses, telephone, facsimile, e-mail address(es)) are the same as those
required under Rule 4 in connection with the request (refer to paragraph
5.043). Where the agent is registered with the International Preliminary
Examining Authority, the number or other indication under which the agent is
so registered may also be indicated in Box No. III. Further information about
the manner of appointing agents, including sub-agents, appears in paragraphs
11.001 to 11.014.

10.021A. How can an agent (or common representative) receive notifications via
e-mail?

If an e-mail address is indicated in Box No. III, the International Bureau and
the International Preliminary Examining Authority (if it provides such a
service) will send notifications to that address by e-mail, thus avoiding
processing or postal delays (refer to paragraph 10.018A). If no e-mail address
is provided, or if the agent or common representative chooses to receive
notifications exclusively by postal mail, by marking the corresponding check-
box in Box No. III, or in the cases where the International Preliminary
Examining Authority does not provide for sending notifications by e-mail,
notifications will be sent to the given mailing address exclusively by postal
mail.

10.022. May the applicants be represented by a common representative?

[Rule 2.2 _bis_ ,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r2.html) [Rule
90.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html) [Rule
90.4](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html)  
The provisions relating to common representatives which apply at earlier
stages (refer to paragraph 5.048) continue to be applicable during the
international preliminary examination procedure. That is, if no common agent
is appointed, one of the applicants may be appointed by the other applicants
as the common representative of all the applicants, and if neither a common
agent nor a common representative is appointed, the applicant named first in
the request who is entitled to file an international application with the
receiving Office concerned will be considered to be the common representative
("deemed common representative") (refer to paragraph 11.006). A separate power
of attorney must be filed with the International Preliminary Examining
Authority, the International Bureau or the receiving Office, if the person
appointed at the time the demand is filed signs the demand on behalf of the
applicant. However, the receiving Office, the International Bureau or the
International Preliminary Examining Authority may waive the requirement that a
separate power of attorney be filed. For further details refer to Annexes B
(IB), C and E.

10.023. What other provisions apply to agents and common representatives
during the international preliminary examination procedure?

The same general provisions apply to agents and common representatives during
the international preliminary examination as apply during other stages of the
international phase (for example, in relation to their legal position and
revocation and renunciation of appointments - refer to paragraphs 11.001 to
11.014).

Box No. IV: Basis for International Preliminary Examination (Statement
Concerning Amendments and Indication of the Language for the Purposes of
International Preliminary Examination)

10.024. Can the applicant amend the claims, the description and the drawings
before and during the international preliminary examination?

[Article 34(2)(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a34.html),
[Rule 66.1(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html) [Rule
66.1(d)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html)  
The applicant has the right, under Article 34(2)(b), to amend the claims, the
description and the drawings before the start of the international preliminary
examination and also during the examination, if time permits, until the
preparation of the international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter
II of the PCT). (As far as the claims are concerned, this is in fact the
second opportunity to amend them before the international preliminary
examination starts; the first opportunity is offered by the possibility of
submitting amendments under Article 19 to the International Bureau as
described in paragraphs 9.004 to 9.009, and 9.011.) For further details
concerning amendments under Article 34(2)(b), refer to paragraphs 10.028,
10.067 to 10.071, 11.045 to 11.047.

10.025. What is the purpose of indicating the basis for international
preliminary examination? Do the statement concerning amendments and the
indication of the language for the purposes of the international preliminary
examination have to be filled in?

[Rule 53.2(a)(iv),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r53.html) [Rule
53.9](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r53.html)  
(i) The statement concerning amendments should be completed, since it enables
the International Preliminary Examining Authority to identify those documents
which will serve as the basis for the start of the international preliminary
examination with a view to starting it as soon as possible. However, failure
to complete the statement or to complete it correctly is not fatal to the
application. In particular, if no amendments have been filed under Article 19
or Article 34 and if the applicant does not wish to file such amendments at
the time when the demand is filed, the result will simply be that the
international preliminary examination will start on the basis of the
international application as originally filed. The applicant will not be
precluded from making amendments at a later stage of the international
preliminary examination, provided that they reach the International
Preliminary Examining Authority in sufficient time to be taken into account.
On the other hand, if there have been amendments but they are not indicated,
or if the applicant wishes later to file amendments but does not so indicate,
the start of the international preliminary examination may be delayed or the
applicant may find that there is insufficient time at a later stage to have
the intended amendments taken into account.

(ii) Completing the indication of the language for the purposes of the
international preliminary examination and its associated check-boxes helps the
International Preliminary Examining Authority determine quickly, with a view
to starting international preliminary examination as soon as possible, whether
the demand and the international application are in a language accepted by
that Authority, or whether a translation of the international application is
required. Completing the indication also helps the International Preliminary
Examining Authority decide whether any amendments filed with the demand (refer
to paragraph (i) above) are in the appropriate language.

10.026. How should the statement concerning amendments be completed?

If amendments to the claims have been made under Article 19 (refer to
paragraphs 9.004 to 9.009) prior to the filing of the demand, the statement
must indicate whether, for the purposes of the international preliminary
examination, the applicant wishes the amendments to be taken into account (in
which case a copy of the amendments should be filed with the demand) or to be
considered as reversed by an amendment under Article 34. If no amendments
under Article 19 have been made but the time limit for filing such amendments
(refer to paragraph 9.004) has not expired at the time when the demand is
filed, the statement may, if the applicant so chooses, indicate that the
applicant wishes the start of the international preliminary examination to be
postponed (refer to paragraph 10.054). If any amendments under Article 34 are
submitted with the demand, the statement must so indicate. A more detailed
explanation is given below for each of the check-boxes in Box No. IV.

“1. The applicant wishes the international preliminary examination to start on
the basis of:

⬜ the international application as originally filed”

This check-box should be marked either where the applicant has not made any
amendments under Article 19 and does not intend at the time of filing the
demand to file any amendments, or where the applicant has already made
amendments under Article 19 but is no longer interested in pursuing them.

“the description

⬜ as originally filed

⬜ as amended under Article 34

the claims

⬜ as originally filed

⬜ as amended under Article 19

⬜ as amended under Article 34

the drawings

⬜ as originally filed

⬜ as amended under Article 34”

[Rule 60.1(g),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r60.html) [Rule
69.1(e)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r69.html)  
These check-boxes should be marked only where the applicant wishes amendments
to be taken into account for the start of the international preliminary
examination. Where the applicant wishes amendments which have previously been
made under Article 19 to be taken into account, a copy of the amendments, and
any statement accompanying such amendments, should be attached to the demand.
If a check-box is marked but the demand is not accompanied by the documents
referred to, the start of international preliminary examination will be
delayed until the International Preliminary Examining Authority receives them.
Amendments under Article 34 should be submitted with, and attached to, the
demand. The applicant should also indicate, by marking the appropriate check-
box(es), which parts of the international application are so amended.

[Rule 53.9(a)(ii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r53.html)  
“2. ⬜ The applicant wishes any amendments to the claims made under Article 19
to be considered as reversed.”

This check-box should be marked only where the applicant, after having
previously made amendments under Article 19, no longer wishes them to be
considered for international preliminary examination. Marking this check-box
will have the effect that those amendments will be considered as reversed by
an amendment under Article 34.

“3. ⬜ Where the IPEA wishes to start the international preliminary examination
at the same time as the international search in accordance with Rule 69.1(b),
the applicant requests the IPEA to postpone the start of the international
preliminary examination until the expiration of the applicable time limit
under Rule 69.1(d)."

This check-box should be marked only where, at the time when the demand is
filed, the time limit for filing amendments under Article 19 has not expired
(refer to paragraph 9.004) and the applicant intends to file such amendments
after filing the demand. In practice, this situation is only likely to arise
if the demand is filed before the international search report is available. If
this check-box is marked but the applicant later decides not to file
amendments under Article 19, the applicant should send a notice to the
International Preliminary Examining Authority that there is no intention to
file such amendments, and the international preliminary examination will then
start.

“4. ⬜ The applicant expressly requests to postpone the start of the
international preliminary examination until the expiration of the applicable
time limit under Rule 54 _bis_.1(a).”

This check-box should be marked if the applicant wishes to postpone the start
of the international preliminary examination until the expiration of the
applicable time limit under Rule 54 _bis_.1(a). Otherwise, where the
International Searching Authority and the International Preliminary Examining
Authority are not the same Authority, examination will commence once the
International Preliminary Examining Authority is in possession of the required
fees, the international search report, or a notice of the declaration under
Article 17(2)(a) and the written opinion of the International Searching
Authority.

10.027. May several check-boxes be marked in Box No. IV?

Yes - for example, under item (1), two or three check-boxes may be marked if
the applicant has already filed amendments to the claims under Article 19 and
wishes those amendments to be taken into account along with further amendments
under Article 34 to the description and/or drawings (and possibly further
amendments to the already amended claims).

10.028. May the applicant make amendments during the international preliminary
examination in addition to any amendments mentioned in Box No. IV?

[Rule 66.1(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html) [Rule 66.4
_bis_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html)  
Yes, the applicant is not precluded from later making amendments, or further
amendments, during the course of the international preliminary examination
(refer to paragraphs 10.067 to 10.071), regardless of what appears in the
statement concerning amendments, and in this sense the statement is not
binding on the applicant or on the conduct of the international preliminary
examination. For example, the applicant may choose to file amendments under
Article 34 at a later stage which supersede amendments previously made under
Article 19, even though the statement indicates that those previous amendments
should be taken into account. However, the information contained in the
statement is used by the International Preliminary Examining Authority to
determine when, and on what basis, the international preliminary examination
is to start (refer to paragraphs 10.051 to 10.055). Moreover, amendments or
arguments need not be taken into account by the International Preliminary
Examining Authority for the purposes of the international preliminary report
on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT) if they are received after the
Authority has begun to draw up that report (refer to paragraph 10.068). Since
the time available for international preliminary examination is limited, it is
in the applicant’s interests to be as definite as possible, at the time of
filing the demand, as to what should form the basis of the international
preliminary examination. If the applicant intends to file amendments under
Article 34 but is not in a position to submit them with the demand, that
intention should preferably be mentioned in a letter filed with the demand. It
is to be noted that since, under Rule 66.1 _bis_ , the written opinion of the
International Searching Authority will in the majority of cases be considered
to be the written opinion of the International Preliminary Examining
Authority, if amendments under Article 34 are not filed together with the
demand, the International Preliminary Examining Authority might, shortly after
the expiration of the time limit under Rule 54 _bis_.1(a), start to draw up
the international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT).

Box No. V: Election of States

10.029. Which States may be elected?

[Rule 53.7](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r53.html)  
The making of a demand on, or after, 1 January 2004 has the effect of electing
all States which have been designated and which are bound by Chapter II of the
PCT.

Box No. VI: Check List

10.030. What is the purpose of the Check List?

The Check List in Box No. VI should be completed by the applicant to allow the
International Preliminary Examining Authority to verify the completeness of
the documents filed with the demand. Of particular importance in the Check
List are the indications relating to amendments referred to in the statement
concerning amendments. The indications given in the Check List should
correspond with the indications given in Box No. IV.

Box No. VII: Signature of Applicant, Agent or Common Representative

10.031. Who must sign the demand?

[Rule 53.4,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r53.html) [Rule
53.8,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r53.html) [Rule
60.1(a-_ter_),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r60.html) [Rule
90.3](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html)  
The demand must be signed by the applicant or, if there is more than one
applicant, by all the applicants making the demand – that is, the applicants
for the States which are elected. However, an agent or common representative
may sign the demand on behalf of the applicant or applicants who appointed
him/her. The demand may be signed on behalf of all the applicants by an
appointed common agent or common representative, or by the applicant who is
considered to be the common representative (“deemed common representative”) if
no common agent or common representative has been appointed (refer to
paragraph 11.006). However, if the signature(s) of one or more applicants is
missing, the International Preliminary Examining Authority will not invite the
applicants to furnish the missing signature(s) provided that at least one of
the applicants has signed the demand. Should a notice of withdrawal be filed
at any time during the international phase, that notice will have to be signed
by the applicant or, if there are two or more applicants, by all of them (Rule
90 _bis_.5), or by any agent or common representative whose appointment has
been effected by each applicant signing the request, the demand or a separate
power of attorney (Rule 90 _bis_.4(a)).

10.032. When must or may a seal be used instead of a signature?

[Rule 2.3](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r2.html)  
In the demand or other papers filed with the China National Intellectual
Property Administration (CNIPA) as International Preliminary Examining
Authority, a seal may be used instead of a signature. In the case of a demand
or other papers filed in English with the European Patent Office (EPO) as
International Preliminary Examining Authority in respect of international
applications filed with the Japan Patent Office (JPO) as receiving Office, a
signature must be furnished instead of a seal. In the demand or other papers
filed with the Korean Intellectual Property Office as International
Preliminary Examining Authority, a seal may be used instead of a signature
(refer to paragraph 5.091 in respect of the request).

Notes to the Demand Form

10.033. What are the Notes to the demand form?

The Notes to the demand form (refer to the WIPO website at:
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/docs/forms/demand/ed-demand.pdf>) are intended to
facilitate the completion of that form. They indicate, in relation to each Box
of the form, what indications are required and how they are to be made. The
Notes are not required to be filed with the demand.

Fee Calculation Sheet

10.034. What is the fee calculation sheet?

The fee calculation sheet is intended to help the applicant calculate the
total amount of fees payable to the International Preliminary Examining
Authority. The sheet is usually annexed to the printed demand form which the
applicant obtains from the receiving Office or the International Preliminary
Examining Authority. It is not part of the form, however, and its use is not
mandatory. Nevertheless, it is strongly recommended that the applicant
complete the fee calculation sheet and submit it to the International
Preliminary Examining Authority. This will help the International Preliminary
Examining Authority verify the calculations and identify any errors. Refer to
the Notes to the fee calculation sheet at the WIPO Internet address in
paragraph 10.033 for details about completion of the sheet. For further
information about the payment of fees, refer to paragraphs 10.035 to 10.043.

FEES

10.035. What fees are payable in respect of a demand for international
preliminary examination?

[Article 31(5)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a31.html)  
There are two kinds of fees which have to be paid in connection with the
demand:

[Rule 58.1(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r58.html) [Rule
58.1(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r58.html)  
(i) the “preliminary examination fee, ” which is fixed by and accrues to the
International Preliminary Examining Authority, mainly for carrying out the
international preliminary examination and for establishing the international
preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT);

[Rule 57.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r57.html)  
(ii) the “handling fee, ” which is fixed in the Schedule of Fees to the PCT
Regulations and accrues to the International Bureau for carrying out various
tasks, including, where required, the translation of the international
preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT) into English
(refer to paragraph 10.039).

10.036. Is any fee payable for effecting an election?

There is no “election fee”. The only fees payable for filing a demand are
those specified in paragraph 10.035.

10.037. To whom are these fees payable?

[Rule 57.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r57.html) [Rule
58.1(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r58.html)  
The preliminary examination fee and the handling fee are payable to the
International Preliminary Examining Authority, which forwards the handling fee
to the International Bureau.

10.038. In what currency are these fees payable?

[Rule 57.2(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r57.html) [Rule
58.1(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r58.html)  
Generally, the preliminary examination fee and the handling fee are payable in
the currency or one of the currencies prescribed by the International
Preliminary Examining Authority. Complete information on this question is
contained in Annex E.

10.039. What are the amounts of these fees?

[Rule 57.2(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r57.html) [Rule
57.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r57.html) [Rule
58.1(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r58.html)  
Annex E indicates the amounts of the preliminary examination fee and the
handling fee payable to each International Preliminary Examining Authority.

10.040. What fee reductions are available?

A reduction of the preliminary examination fee charged by the Austrian Patent
Office, the European Patent Office and the Spanish Patent and Trademark Office
may be available to applicants from certain States - refer to Annexes E for
further details.

10.041

In accordance with the Schedule of Fees, item 5, an applicant is entitled to a
reduction of 90% of the handling fee if (a) the applicant is a natural person
and a national of and resides in a State that is listed as being a State whose
per capita gross domestic product is below 25,000 US dollars (according to the
most recent 10-year average per capita gross domestic product figures at
constant 2005 US dollars values published by the United Nations), and whose
nationals and residents who are natural persons have filed less than 10
international applications per year (per million population) or less than 50
international applications per year (in absolute numbers) according to the
most recent 5-year average yearly filing figures published by the
International Bureau; or (b) if the applicant is, whether a natural person or
not, a national of and resides in a State that is listed as being classified
by the United Nations as a least developed country. (For a list of States
whose nationals and residents are eligible for the fee reduction, refer to
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/docs/fee-reduction-january.pdf>). If there are
several applicants, each must satisfy one or the other of the above-mentioned
criteria. However, it should be noted that an applicant is only entitled to
the reduction of the handling fee if, at the time of filing the demand, that
applicant is or all applicants are the true and only owners of the application
and under no obligation to assign, grant, convey or license the rights in the
invention to another party which is not eligible for the fee reduction, as
outlined above. If the applicant is or all applicants are entitled to the
reduction of the handling fee, this reduction applies on the basis of the
indications of name, nationality and residence given in Box No. II of the
demand, without the need for a specific request to be made.

10.042. When are these fees due?

[Rule 57.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r57.html) [Rule
58.1(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r58.html)  
The preliminary examination fee and the handling fee must be paid within one
month from the date on which the demand was submitted or 22 months from the
priority date, whichever expires later, provided that, where the demand was
transmitted to the competent International Preliminary Examining Authority
under Rule 59.3, the handling fee must be paid within one month from the date
of receipt by that Authority or 22 months from the priority date, whichever
expires later. As to the consequences of non-payment or late payment of these
fees, refer to paragraph 10.047.

10.043. In what cases are these fees refunded?

[Rule 54.4,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r54.html) [Rule
57.4,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r57.html) [Rule
58.3](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r58.html)  
The International Preliminary Examining Authority will refund the handling fee
if the demand is withdrawn before being sent to the International Bureau or if
the demand is considered not to have been submitted because none of the
applicants had the right to file a demand (refer to paragraph 10.004). Each
International Preliminary Examining Authority decides at its discretion
whether it will refund the preliminary examination fee, or any part thereof,
in other circumstances. Details are indicated in Annex E.

PROCESSING OF THE DEMAND FOR INTERNATIONAL PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION

10.044. What happens to the demand for international preliminary examination
once it has been received?

[Rule 60.1(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r60.html) [Rule
61.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r61.html)  
The International Preliminary Examining Authority promptly notifies the
applicant of the date of receipt of the demand, and then examines the demand
to ascertain whether it meets all the requirements. If it does not, the
International Preliminary Examining Authority invites the applicant to comply.
For full details on the correction of defects in the demand, refer to Rule
60.1 and paragraphs 10.047 to 10.049, and paragraph 10.050.

10.045

[Article 31(7)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a31.html),  [Rule
61.1(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r61.html) [Rule
61.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r61.html) [Rule
61.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r61.html) [Rule
61.4,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r61.html) [Section
431](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s431.html)  
The International Preliminary Examining Authority sends the demand or a copy
thereof to the International Bureau. The International Bureau then notifies
Offices of their election and informs the applicant that it has done so. For
full details, refer to Rules 61.2 and 61.3. In addition, the International
Bureau, promptly after the filing of the demand but not before the
international publication, publishes information on the WIPO website at:
<https://www.wipo.int/patentscope/en/> on the demand and the elected States
concerned, as provided in the Administrative Instructions.

10.046. What action can the applicant take if the indications on the demand
form do not support the applicant’s right to file the demand?

[Article 31(2)(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a31.html),
[Rule 61.1(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r61.html) [Section
614](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s614.html)  
If the indications of the applicant’s residence and nationality given in Box
No. II of the demand form do not support the applicant’s right to file a
demand with the International Preliminary Examining Authority concerned (refer
to paragraph 10.004), the International Preliminary Examining Authority
notifies the applicant that the demand is considered not to have been
submitted. It may happen, however, that those indications were incorrectly
stated or that the applicant in fact had a residence and/or nationality
supporting the applicant’s right to file the demand. In such a case, evidence
should immediately be submitted indicating that, in fact, the applicant had,
on the date on which the demand was received by the International Preliminary
Examining Authority, the right to file the demand with that Authority. If that
evidence is to the satisfaction of the Authority, it will then regard the
requirements of Article 31(2)(a) as having been fulfilled on the date of
actual receipt of the demand, and the indications in the demand can be
corrected.

10.047. Can defects in the demand for international preliminary examination,
non-compliance with certain language requirements, and non-payment of certain
fees be corrected, and if so how?

What are the consequences? If the International Preliminary Examining
Authority finds that:

[Article 31(3)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a31.html),  [Rule
53](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r53.html),  [Rule
55.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r55.html)  
(i) the demand does not meet the requirements as to form, contents and
languages (refer to paragraph 10.012),

[Rule 57.3](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r57.html)  
(ii) the handling fee was not paid within one month from the date on which the
demand was submitted or, where the demand was transmitted to the competent
International Preliminary Examining Authority under Rule 59.3, within one
month from the date of receipt by that Authority, or was not paid in the
prescribed currency (refer to paragraphs 10.035 and 10.038), or

[Rule 58.1(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r58.html) [Rule 58
_bis_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r58bis.html),  [Rule
60.1(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r60.html)  
(iii) the preliminary examination fee was not paid within one month from the
date on which the demand was submitted or, where the demand was transmitted to
the competent International Preliminary Examining Authority under Rule 59.3,
within one month from the date of receipt by that Authority, or was not paid
in the prescribed currency (fixed by the International Preliminary Examining
Authority - refer to paragraphs 10.035 and 10.038), it invites the applicant
to correct the defect(s) and comply with the requirements and/or to pay the
required fee(s). In the case of defects as to form or language, the invitation
specifies a time limit of at least one month from the date of the invitation,
which time limit may be extended by the International Preliminary Examining
Authority at any time before a decision is taken. In the case of defects as to
fee payment, the invitation specifies a time limit of one month from the date
of the invitation; a late payment fee may also be required; no extension of
this time limit is available. However, any payment must be considered to have
been received before the expiration of the applicable time limit if it is
received by the International Preliminary Examining Authority before the
expiration of the time limit for paying the fee(s) or, where an invitation to
pay missing fees has been sent, before that Authority makes the declaration
that the demand is considered not to have been made.

10.048

[Rule 60.1(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r60.html) [Rule
61.1(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r61.html)  
If the applicant complies with the invitation within the specified time limit,
there is no adverse consequence, other than possibly delaying the start of the
international preliminary examination (refer to paragraph 10.050), except
where the defect was that the demand did not permit the international
application to be identified. In the latter case, the demand is considered to
have been received on the date on which the required correction to it is
received, and the International Preliminary Examining Authority informs the
applicant of that date.

10.049

[Rule 60.1(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r60.html) [Rule
61.1(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r61.html)  
If, after the expiration of the time limit specified (including any
extensions), a signature (of at least one applicant), or other required
indication (in respect of one applicant who has the right according to Rule
54.2 to make a demand) is still lacking the demand is considered not to have
been submitted and the International Preliminary Examining Authority will so
declare.

10.050

[Article 39(1)(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a39.html)  
Where the demand is considered to have been received, as described in
paragraph 10.048, on a date later than that on which it was actually
submitted, the effect of postponing the commencement of the national phase
(refer to paragraph 10.002 above) is lost if that later date is after the
expiration of 19 months from the priority date. This is, however, only
relevant in respect of any State whose designated Office has notified the
International Bureau that the 30-month time limit under Article 22(1), as in
force from April 1, 2002, is incompatible with the national law applied by
that Office. The effect of postponing the commencement of the national phase
is also lost where the demand is considered not to have been submitted (refer
to paragraph 10.049).

THE INTERNATIONAL PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION

10.051. When does the international preliminary examination start?

[Rule 69.1(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r69.html)  
Subject to the exceptions mentioned in paragraphs 10.052 to 10.055, the
International Preliminary Examining Authority starts the international
preliminary examination when it is in possession of the demand, the amount due
(in full) for the handling fee and the preliminary examination fee, including,
where applicable, the late payment fee under Rule 58 _bis_.2, and of either
the international search report and the written opinion established under Rule
43 _bis_.1 or a declaration by the International Searching Authority that no
international search report will be established and the written opinion
established under Rule 43 _bis_.1, unless the applicant expressly requests to
postpone the start of the international preliminary examination until the
expiration of the applicable time limit under Rule 54 _bis_.1(a).

10.052. What is a “telescoped” procedure for the purpose of international
preliminary examination?

[Rule 69.1(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r69.html)  
If the competent International Preliminary Examining Authority is part of the
same (national or regional) Office as the competent International Searching
Authority, the international preliminary examination may, if the Office wishes
and except where the applicant has requested that the international
preliminary examination be postponed (refer to paragraph 10.054), start at the
same time as the international search (often called a telescoped procedure
since the international search and international preliminary examination
partly overlap).

10.053. Will the International Preliminary Examining Authority take into
account my amendments made under Article 19?

[Rule 53.9(a)(i),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r53.html) [Rule
62](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r62.html),  [Rule
69.1(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r69.html)  
Where the statement concerning amendments made in the demand contains an
indication that amendments under Article 19 are to be taken into account, the
International Preliminary Examining Authority will not start the international
preliminary examination before it has received a copy of the amendments
concerned and the accompanying letter. Therefore, a copy of those amendments
and accompanying letter should be attached to the demand by the applicant in
order to allow as much time as possible for the international preliminary
examination (refer to paragraphs 9.010, 10.025 and 10.026). The International
Bureau will, in any event, send a copy of those amendments and accompanying
letter to the International Preliminary Examining Authority unless that
Authority has indicated that it has already received them (refer to paragraph
9.010), but waiting for those copies to be sent may delay the start of the
international preliminary examination.

10.054. How can I postpone the start of the international preliminary
examination?

[Rule 53.9(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r53.html) [Rule
69.1(d)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r69.html)  
Where the statement concerning amendments contains an indication that the
start of the international preliminary examination is to be postponed (refer
to paragraph 10.026), the International Preliminary Examining Authority will
not start the international preliminary examination before whichever of the
following occurs first:

(i) it has received a copy of any amendments under Article 19;

(ii) it has received a notice from the applicant stating that the applicant
does not intend to make amendments under Article 19; or

(iii) the expiration of the applicable time limit under Rule 46.1.

Therefore, where the applicant gives such an indication in the demand, he/she
should ensure that the International Preliminary Examining Authority is
informed promptly of any amendments or of any decision not to file amendments,
in order to gain the maximum time possible for the international preliminary
examination procedure.

10.055

[Rule 53.9(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r53.html) [Rule
55.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r55.html) [Rule
55.3(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r55.html) [Rule
55.3(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r55.html) [Rule
55.3(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r55.html) [Rule
55.3(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r55.html) [Rule
69.1(e)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r69.html)  
Where the statement concerning amendments contains an indication that
amendments under Article 34 are submitted with the demand (refer to paragraph
10.026), but no such amendments are, in fact, submitted with the demand, the
International Preliminary Examining Authority will not start the international
preliminary examination before it has received the amendments or before it has
invited the applicant to file them and the time limit fixed in that invitation
has expired, whichever occurs first. Where the international application was
not filed in the language of publication, any amendments under Article 34 and
any accompanying letter (as well as any letter accompanying Article 19
amendments) must be in the language of publication. Where the international
preliminary examination is carried out on the basis of a translation of the
international application (refer to paragraph 10.011), any such amendments,
and any amendments under Article 19 which are to be taken into account, and
any letter that accompanied such amendments must be in the language of that
translation. Where such amendments have been or are filed in another language,
a translation of the amendments into the language in which the international
preliminary examination is carried out must also be furnished (also refer to
paragraph 11.046). If the amendments or accompanying letter are not in the
required language, the International Preliminary Examining Authority will
invite the applicant to furnish them within a reasonable time limit. If the
applicant fails to furnish the amendments and/or the accompanying letter
within the time limit set in the invitation, the International Preliminary
Examining Authority will not take the amendments into consideration for the
purposes of the international preliminary examination.

10.056. May the International Preliminary Examining Authority ask for the
priority document and a translation of it?

[Rule 66.7](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html)  
If the International Preliminary Examining Authority needs a copy of an
application the priority of which is claimed in the international application
(“the priority document”) and the International Bureau already has the
priority document in its possession (refer to paragraph 5.070), the
International Bureau furnishes a copy of it to the Authority on request.
Should the applicant have failed to provide the priority document under Rule
17.1, the international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the
PCT) may be established as if the priority had not been claimed, but no
elected Office may later disregard the priority claim under those
circumstances before giving the applicant an opportunity to furnish the
priority document within a time limit which is reasonable under the
circumstances. Where the priority document is in a language other than the
language or one of the languages indicated for the International Preliminary
Examining Authority in Annex E, and that Authority is of the opinion that the
validity of the priority claim is relevant for the formulation of the opinion
on whether the claimed invention appears to be novel, to involve an inventive
step and to be industrially applicable, the Authority may invite the applicant
to furnish to it a translation in that language. The applicant must comply
with that invitation within two months from its date; otherwise, the
international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT) may
be established as if the priority had not been claimed.

10.057. What is the purpose of the international preliminary examination?

[Article 33(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a33.html)  
As already stated in paragraph 10.001, the purpose of the international
preliminary examination is to formulate an opinion - which is “preliminary”
(since a final opinion will be formulated only in the national phase by the
national or regional Patent Office or by a competent national or regional
court) and “non-binding” (on anyone, including elected Offices) - on whether
the claimed invention appears (i) to be novel, (ii) to involve an inventive
step (to be non-obvious), and (iii) to be industrially applicable. While there
is not a fully uniform approach to these criteria in national laws, their
application under the PCT during the international preliminary examination
procedure is such that the international preliminary report on patentability
(Chapter II of the PCT) gives a good idea of the likely results in the
national phase.

10.058. For the purposes of the international preliminary examination, when is
a claimed invention considered novel?

[Article 33(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a33.html),  [Rule
64](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r64.html)  
For the purposes of the international preliminary examination, a claimed
invention is considered novel if it is not anticipated by the prior art. Rule
64 defines prior art for the purposes of the examination.

10.059. For the purposes of the international preliminary examination, when is
a claimed invention considered to involve an inventive step?

[Article 33(3)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a33.html),  [Rule
65](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r65.html)  
For the purposes of the international preliminary examination, a claimed
invention is considered to involve an inventive step if, having regard to the
prior art as defined in the Regulations (refer to paragraph 10.058), it is
not, at the prescribed relevant date, obvious to a person skilled in the art.
For further details, refer to Rule 65.

10.060. For the purposes of the international preliminary examination, when is
a claimed invention considered industrially applicable?

[Article 33(4)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a33.html)  
For the purposes of the international preliminary examination, a claimed
invention is considered industrially applicable if, according to its nature,
it can be made or used (in the technological sense) in any kind of industry.

10.061. What documents form the basis of the international preliminary
examination?

[Rule 66.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html) [Rule 66.4
_bis_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html)  
The international preliminary examination is based on the claims, the
description and the drawings comprised in the international application.
Amendments to the claims under Article 19 made before the demand was filed are
taken into account unless they are superseded by a subsequent amendment under
Article 34 (refer to paragraph 10.028) or considered as reversed by an
amendment under Article 34 (refer to paragraph 10.026). Amendments made after
the demand is filed, whether under Article 19 or under Article 34, are also
taken into account for the purposes of the international preliminary
examination, except that they need not be taken into account for the purposes
of a written opinion of the International Preliminary Examining Authority or
the international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT)
if they are received after the International Preliminary Examining Authority
has begun to draw up that opinion or report. As to the permissibility of
amendments in general, refer to paragraph 11.047.

10.062. What happens if no international search report has been established in
respect of certain claims?

[Rule 66.2(a)(vi)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html)  
Claims relating to inventions in respect of which no international search
report has been established (refer to paragraphs 7.013 to 7.021) need not be
the subject of international preliminary examination and any written opinion
of the International Preliminary Examining Authority, as well as the
international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT),
will so indicate.

10.062A. Does the International Preliminary Examining Authority carry out any
additional search?

[Rule 66.1 _ter_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html)  
The International Preliminary Examining Authority normally carries out a top-
up search to discover any documents referred to in Rule 64, which have been
published or have become available to the Authority for search subsequent to
the date on which the international search report was established, unless
where it considers that this would serve no useful purpose, for example, where
it finds that the international application, in its entirety, relates to
subject matter on which it is not required to carry out an international
preliminary examination. The international preliminary examination report
indicates whether a top-up search was carried out. When establishing the
international preliminary examination report, the Authority may include
results of the top-up search.

10.063. What special requirements apply during the international preliminary
examination to nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence listings?

[Rule 13 _ter_.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13ter.html)  
Where the International Preliminary Examining Authority finds that an
international application contains disclosure of a nucleotide and/or amino
acid sequence required to be included in a sequence listing pursuant to Annex
C of the Administrative Instructions and that a sequence listing complying
with the prescribed standard (refer to paragraph 5.099) in a language accepted
by that Authority has not already been furnished (as part of the international
application or for the purposes of international preliminary examination, as
the case may be), that Authority may invite the applicant to furnish a
sequence listing complying with this standard or containing a translation of
the language-dependent free text. The listings required by the International
Preliminary Examining Authority are for the purposes of carrying out the
international preliminary examination. National law requirements, in relation
to disclosure of inventions involving sequence listings, are a matter for the
national phase of processing.

10.064. What matters concerning the international application may be the
subject of comment by the International Preliminary Examining Authority?

[Rule 66.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html)  
The International Preliminary Examining Authority notifies the applicant in a
written opinion if it considers that

[Article 34(4)(a)(i)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a34.html),
[Article 35(3)(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a35.html),
[Rule 66.2(a)(i),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html) [Rule
67](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r67.html)  
(i) the international application relates to subject matter on which it is not
required to carry out an international preliminary examination, and decides
not to carry out such an examination (this situation being the same as the one
described in paragraph 7.013 in relation to the international search),

[Article 34(4)(a)(ii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a34.html),
[Rule 66.2(a)(i)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html)  
(ii) the description, the claims or the drawings are so unclear, or the claims
are so inadequately supported by the description, that no meaningful opinion
can be formed on the novelty, inventive step (non-obviousness) or industrial
applicability of the claimed invention (this situation being the same as the
one described in paragraph 7.014 in relation to the international search),

[Rule 66.2(a)(ii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html)  
(iii) the international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the
PCT) should be “negative” (refer to paragraph 10.075) in respect of any of the
claims because the invention claimed therein does not appear to be novel, does
not appear to involve an inventive step (be non-obvious), or does not appear
to be industrially applicable,

[Rule 66.2(a)(iv)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html)  
(iv) any amendment goes beyond the disclosure in the international application
as filed (refer to paragraphs 10.070 and 11.047),

[Rule 66.2(a)(v)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html)  
(v) the international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the
PCT) should be accompanied by (unfavorable) observations on the clarity of the
claims, the description and the drawings, or on the question of the claims
being fully supported by the description,

[Rule 66.2(a)(vi)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html)  
(vi) a claim relates to an invention in respect of which no international
search report has been established (refer to paragraphs 7.013 to 7.021) and
the International Preliminary Examining Authority has decided not to carry out
the international preliminary examination in respect of that claim,

[Rule 66.2(a)(vii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html)  
(vii) a nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence listing is not available to it
in such a form and language that a meaningful international preliminary
examination can be carried out (similarly to paragraph 5.099 in relation to
the international search),

[Rule 66.2(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html)  
(viii) the national law applied by the national Office which acts as the
International Preliminary Examining Authority does not allow multiple
dependent claims to be drafted in a manner different from that provided for in
the second and third sentences of Rule 6.4(a) (this situation being the same
as the one described in paragraphs 5.113 and 7.014 in relation to the
international search).

10.065

[Rule 66.2(a)(iii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html)  
The Authority also proceeds as indicated in paragraph 10.064 where it notices
some defect in the form or contents of the international application. Where
observance of the unity of invention requirement (refer to paragraphs 5.114 to
5.123) is in question, refer to paragraph 10.072.

10.066. What is a “written opinion”?

[Rule 66.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html) [Rule
66.4(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html)  
A “written opinion” is a notification, issued by the International Preliminary
Examining Authority to the applicant, which indicates any comments by the
Authority on the matters mentioned in paragraph 10.064. The written opinion
must fully state the reasons for it, must invite the applicant to submit a
written reply and must fix a time limit for the reply (usually two months, but
extendible at the applicant’s request - for more details, refer to Rule
66.2(d)). There may be no written opinion if the Authority has no such
comments to make (in which case the Authority will proceed directly to the
issuance of the international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II
of the PCT)). The Authority may issue one or more additional written opinions
if time permits, particularly if the applicant makes a prompt and serious
attempt to address the Authority’s comments by argument or amendment.

10.067. How may the applicant react to a written opinion by the International
Preliminary Examining Authority?

[Article 34(2)(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a34.html),
[Article 34(2)(d)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a34.html),
[Rule 66.2(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html) [Rule
66.2(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html) [Rule
66.2(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html) [Rule
66.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html) [Rule
66.4,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html) [Rule
66.5,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html) [Rule
66.6,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html) [Rule
66.8](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html)  
The applicant may ask for further clarifications from the International
Preliminary Examining Authority and may voluntarily give clarifications to it,
since the PCT expressly provides that the applicant has a right to communicate
orally, by telephone or personally, or in writing with the Authority (Article
34(2)(a); refer also to Rule 66.6). More specifically, where the applicant
receives a written opinion from the Authority on any of the matters referred
to in paragraphs 10.064 and 10.065, he/she may respond to that written opinion
(refer to Article 34(2)(d)). The response may consist of amendments and/or
arguments. Any change – other than the rectification of obvious mistakes
(refer to paragraphs 11.033 to 11.044) – in the claims, the description or the
drawings (including cancellation of claims, omission of passages in the
description or omission of certain drawings) is considered an amendment. For
the form of amendments, refer to paragraph 10.071. If the International
Preliminary Examining Authority issues one or more additional written
opinions, the applicant’s reaction possibilities are the same as in the case
of the first written opinion. The applicant may request one or more additional
opportunities for submitting amendments or arguments if sufficient time
remains.

10.068. Will amendments and arguments always be taken into account?

[Rule 66.4 _bis_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html)  
Amendments and arguments submitted will be taken into account if they are
received in sufficient time. In view of the limited time available for
international preliminary examination, however, it is in the applicant’s
interest to reply as soon as possible to any written opinion. Amendments or
arguments need not be taken into account by the International Preliminary
Examining Authority for the purposes of a written opinion or the international
preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT) if they are
received after the Authority has begun to draw up that opinion or report.

10.069. Am I obliged to make changes to my international application after
receipt of a negative written opinion?

It should be noted that the International Preliminary Examining Authority
cannot force the applicant to make any change in the international
application. In other words the applicant may disregard any opinion of the
said Authority, either wholly or in part. Such an attitude may lead to an
unfavorable or less favorable international preliminary report on
patentability (Chapter II of the PCT), but the applicant may prefer such a
report (in the hope of overcoming, in the national phase, any difficulties
that it may cause) to an undesirable change.

10.070. May amendments include new matter in the international application?

[Article 34(2)(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a34.html),
[Rule 70.2(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r70.html)  
As for amendments under Article 19 (refer to paragraph 9.009), amendments
under Article 34(2)(b) may not go beyond the disclosure in the international
application as filed. If the International Preliminary Examining Authority
considers that any amendments do not comply with this requirement, it will
comment accordingly in any written opinion and in the international
preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT), and the report
will be established as if such amendment had not been made (also refer to
paragraph 11.047).

10.071. What must be done to effect amendments to the international
application before the International Preliminary Examining Authority?

[Rule 11.14,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r11.html) [Rule
46.5,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r46.html) [Rule
55.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r55.html) [Rule
66.8,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html) [Rule
70.2(c-_bis_)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r70.html)  
The applicant must submit a replacement sheet for every sheet which, on
account of an amendment, differs from the sheet previously filed. The
amendment must be submitted with an accompanying letter which explains the
difference between the replaced sheet and the replacement sheet and which
preferably explains the reasons for the amendment. In addition, the letter
must indicate the basis for the amendment in the application. The basis for
the amendment must always refer to the application (description, claims,
drawings) as originally filed, even if multiple amendments were made during
the international phase. When filing amendments to the claims, a complete set
of claims in replacement of the claims as originally filed (or previously
amended under Article 19) shall be submitted. For an example of how the basis
for the amendment should be indicated, refer to paragraph 9.006. For the
consequences of not furnishing an accompanying letter with the replacement
sheets, refer to paragraph 11.047A. Where the amendment consists in the
deletion of passages or in minor alterations or additions, the alterations or
additions may be made on a copy of the relevant sheet of the international
application, provided that the clarity and direct reproducibility of that
sheet are not adversely affected. No replacement sheet is required where the
amendment results in the cancellation of an entire sheet; such an amendment
may be communicated in a letter which preferably explains the reasons for the
amendment. For amendments to the claims, also refer to paragraphs 9.005 and
9.006 in relation to the international search, which apply _mutatis mutandis_.
Where the international application was not filed in the language of
publication, any amendments under Article 34 and any accompanying letter (as
well as any letter accompanying Article 19 amendments) must be in the language
of publication. Where the international preliminary examination is carried out
on the basis of a translation of the international application (refer to
paragraphs 10.011, 10.054 and 10.055), any amendments under Article 34 and any
amendments under Article 19, which are to be taken into account, and any
accompanying letter must be in the language of that translation. Where such
amendments have been or are filed in another language, a translation of the
amendments into the language in which the international preliminary
examination is carried out must also be furnished (refer to paragraphs 5.013,
10.011 and 11.046). No fee is payable in respect of filing any amendments
under Article 34(2)(b). If the amendments or accompanying letter are not in
the required language, the International Preliminary Examining Authority will
invite the applicant to furnish them within a reasonable time limit. If the
applicant fails to furnish the amendments and/or the accompanying letter
within the time limit set in the invitation, the International Preliminary
Examining Authority shall not take such amendments into account for the
purposes of the international preliminary examination.

10.072. What happens where the International Preliminary Examining Authority
finds that “unity of invention” is lacking?

[Rule 68](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r68.html),  [Rule
70.13](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r70.html)  
If the International Preliminary Examining Authority considers that the
international application does not comply with the unity of invention
requirement (refer to paragraphs 5.114 to 5.123 for the notion of “unity of
invention”), it may choose between two courses of action: it may carry out the
international preliminary examination on the entire international application
and express its views on the lack of unity of invention in the international
preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT), or it may invite
the applicant to either restrict the claims so that they meet the requirement
(in which case the Authority must specify at least one possibility of
restriction) or to pay additional fees (since the preliminary examination fee
is calculated to cover cases where unity of invention exists). If the
applicant chooses to restrict the claims as required, the examination is
carried out on the claims as restricted. If the applicant chooses to pay the
additional fees, the international preliminary examination is carried out on
the claims for the main invention and those claims in respect of which
additional fees were paid, and the report will indicate that such additional
fees have been paid. The additional fees may be paid under protest, in which
case procedures similar to those explained in relation to the international
search apply (refer to paragraphs 7.019 and 7.020). If the applicant neither
restricts the claims nor pays additional fees, the examination is carried out
on the main invention as identified by the International Preliminary Examining
Authority or the applicant, or in cases of doubt as defined in Rule 68.5
(namely, the invention first mentioned in the claims is considered to be the
main invention).

10.073

[Article 34(3)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a34.html)  
A finding of lack of unity of invention may continue to be important during
the national phase. Any elected Office which agrees with the finding of lack
of unity may, during the national procedure, require the applicant to restrict
the claims or to divide the application into a number of divisional
applications, or to pay special fees in order to maintain those parts of the
international application which do not relate to the main invention (for
further details, refer to Article 34(3)).

THE INTERNATIONAL PRELIMINARY REPORT ON PATENTABILITY (CHAPTER II OF THE PCT)

10.074. When must the international preliminary report on patentability
(Chapter II of the PCT) be established?

[Article 35(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a35.html),  [Rule
69.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r69.html)  
The time limit for establishment of the international preliminary report on
patentability (Chapter II of the PCT) is whichever of the following which
expires last: 28 months from the priority date; six months from the time
provided under Rule 69.1 for the start of the international preliminary
examination; or six months from the date of receipt by the International
Preliminary Examining Authority of the translation furnished under Rule 55.2
(refer to paragraphs 10.051 to 10.055). Thus, under normal circumstances, the
applicant receives the report, at the latest, two months before national
processing at the elected Offices may start. This ensures that the applicant
has time to consider whether, and in which elected Offices, he/she wants to
enter the national phase and to prepare the necessary actions (for details,
refer to National Phase).

10.075. What are the form and contents of the international preliminary report
on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT)?

[Article 35(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a35.html),
[Article 35(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a35.html),  [Rule
70](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r70.html),  [Section
604](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s604.html)  
The international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT)
contains, among other things, a statement (in the form of a simple “yes” or
“no”), in relation to each claim which has been examined, on whether the claim
appears to satisfy the criteria of novelty, inventive step (non-obviousness)
and industrial applicability. The statement is, where appropriate, accompanied
by the citation of relevant documents together with concise explanations
pointing out the criteria to which the cited documents are applicable and
giving reasons for the International Preliminary Examining Authority’s
conclusions. Other matters which may be included in the report are listed in
paragraphs 10.064 and 10.065. The report also includes an indication whether
any additional relevant documents had been discovered during a top-up search,
states the date on which a top-up search was made or else states that no such
top-up search was made (refer to paragraph 10.062A). Where applicable, the
report also includes remarks relating to the question of unity of invention
(refer to paragraph 10.072). For more details, refer to Article 35(1) and (2),
Rule 70 and Section 604.

10.076. How are amendments to the international application referred to in the
international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT)?

[Rule 70.2(c-_bis_),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r70.html) [Rule
70.2(e),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r70.html) [Rule
70.16](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r70.html)  
The international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT)
identifies the basis on which it is established - that is, whether, and if so,
which, amendments have been taken into account. If amendments were made either
under Article 19 and/or Article 34, but the applicant failed to submit the
required accompanying letter to the International Bureau or the International
Preliminary Examining Authority, the report may be established as if the
amendments concerned had not been made and the report shall so indicate. The
following are attached as “annexes” to the international preliminary report on
patentability (Chapter II of the PCT): replacement sheets containing
amendments under Article 19 and/or Article 34, which have been taken into
account, and any accompanying letters, and replacement sheets containing
rectifications of obvious mistakes, and accompanying letter authorized under
Rule 91. Where a rectification of an obvious mistake is not taken into
consideration because it has reached the International Preliminary Examining
Authority only after it has begun to draw-up the report and, as a result, was
not taken into account, the report shall so indicate and the sheets relating
to the rectification will be annexed to the report. Amendments under Article
19 which have been considered as reversed by an amendment under Article 34
(refer to paragraph 10.026) or which have been superseded by later replacement
sheets, or amendments resulting in the cancellation of entire sheets, are not
annexed to the report neither are the letters which accompany such replacement
sheets. However, if the International Preliminary Examining Authority
considers that the superseding or reversing amendment goes beyond the original
disclosure, each superseded or reversed replacement sheet and any letter
relating to such sheets are nevertheless annexed to the report. Similarly, if
the applicant failed to submit, together with the superseding or reversing
amendments, the required accompanying letter, indicating the basis of the
amendment in the application as filed, and where, as a result, the report is
established as if the superseding or reversing amendments had not been made,
each such superseded or reversed replacement sheet and any letter relating to
such sheets are nevertheless annexed to the report.

10.077. May the international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II
of the PCT) express a view on the patentability of the invention?

[Article 35(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a35.html)  
No, it may not. Article 35(2) expressly states that “the international
preliminary examination report shall not contain any statement on the question
whether the claimed invention is or seems to be patentable or unpatentable
according to any national law.” It should be noted that, in this context,
“national law” includes regional patent treaties (the ARIPO Harare Protocol,
the Eurasian Patent Convention, the European Patent Convention and the OAPI
Agreement).

10.078. In what language is the international preliminary report on
patentability (Chapter II of the PCT) established?

[Rule 70.17,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r70.html) [Rule
72](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r72.html),  [Rule
74](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r74.html)  
Are translations prepared? The international preliminary report on
patentability (Chapter II of the PCT) and any annexes are established in the
language in which the international application is published - refer to
paragraphs 9.017 to 9.020) - except where the international preliminary
examination is carried out on the basis of a translation (refer to paragraphs
5.013, 10.011 and 10.013), in which case the international preliminary report
on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT) and annexes are established in the
language of that translation. Each elected State may require that the report,
if it is not in (one of) the official language(s) of its national Office, be
translated into English. If this is the case, the translation of the body of
the report is prepared by the International Bureau, which transmits copies to
the applicant and to each interested elected Office. If any elected Office
requires a translation of annexes to the report, the preparation and
furnishing of that translation is the responsibility of the applicant.

10.079. How do the applicant, the International Bureau and the elected Offices
receive the international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of
the PCT) and, where applicable, its translation?

[Article 36(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a36.html),
[Article 36(3)(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a36.html),
[Rule 71.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r71.html) [Rule
73.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r73.html) [Rule 93
_bis_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r93bis.html)  
The International Preliminary Examining Authority transmits, on the same day,
copies of the international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of
the PCT) (and any annexes – refer to paragraph 10.076) to the applicant and
the International Bureau. The latter transmits copies of the report (including
any annexes) to the elected Offices, as well as a translation into English of
the body of the report where that is required by any elected Office in
accordance with Rule 93 _bis_ ; it is however the applicant’s responsibility
to prepare a translation of any annexes, if required, and send it to the
elected Offices concerned (refer to paragraph 10.078 and the National Phase).
If, in the opinion of the applicant, there are errors in the translation of
the international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT),
he/she may send written observations on such errors to any interested elected
Office and must send a copy of such observations to the International Bureau.
As far as comments on the content of the international preliminary report on
patentability (Chapter II of the PCT) itself are concerned, they should be
addressed to the elected Offices during the national phase.

10.079A. Are any other documents in the file of the International Preliminary
Examining Authority transmitted to the International Bureau?

[Rule 71.1(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r71.html) [Section 602
_bis_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s602bis.html)  
The International Preliminary Examining Authority also transmits a copy of the
following documents to the International Bureau, which will communicate a copy
to the elected Offices at the same time as it transmits a copy of the
international preliminary report on patentability:

— any written opinion issued by the Authority;

— any replacement sheet containing amendments under Article 34 and any letter
accompanying the amendments, including any such amendments and letters that
have been superseded;

— any letter containing arguments that the applicant submitted to the
Authority under PCT Rule 66.3 (refer to paragraph 10.067);

— any invitation to restrict claims or pay additional fees issued by the
Authority;

— any protest against the invitation to restrict the claims or pay additional
fees and the decision thereon, regardless whether or not the applicant has so
requested in accordance with Rule 68.3(c); and

— any other document in its file that it wishes to transmit.

These documents will be transmitted to the International Bureau at any time
after they have become available, but generally not later than the time of
transmittal of the international preliminary examination report. It should be
noted that any International Preliminary Examining Authority may decide to
postpone the transmittal of the aforementioned documents until such time as it
is technically prepared to do so.

10.080. Are the international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II
of the PCT) and any other documents from the file of the international
preliminary examination accessible to persons other than the applicant and the
elected Offices?

[Article 36(3)(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a36.html),
[Article 38(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a38.html),  [Rule
71.1(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r71.html) [Rule
73.2(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r73.html) [Rule
94.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r94.html) [Rule
94.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r94.html) [Rule
94.3](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r94.html)  
The report and related documents from the file of the international
preliminary examination are not published by the International Bureau.
According to Article 36(3)(a), the International Bureau communicates the
report to elected Offices. As of 1 January 2004, however, if so requested by
an elected Office (details of such requests are published in the _Official
Notices (PCT Gazette)_), the International Bureau will make available on
PATENTSCOPE at: <https://www.wipo.int/patentscope/en/> the international
preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT), although, not
before the expiration of 30 months from the priority date. Similarly,
according to the amendments to Rules 71.1(b) and 94.1(c), which entered into
force on 1 July 2020, any other document received at or established by the
International Preliminary Examining Authority on or after 1 July 2020 will be
made available on PATENTSCOPE after 30 months from the priority date (refer to
paragraph 10.079A). The International Preliminary Examining Authority may not,
unless requested or authorized by the applicant, give copies to anyone other
than the applicant and the International Bureau. Once the international
preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT) becomes part of
the file in the elected Office, however, the national law applicable by that
Office applies as to access to that report and the international preliminary
examination file by persons other than the applicant, as indicated in
paragraph 11.072.

10.081. [Deleted]

10.082. How can the applicant obtain copies of the documents cited in the
international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT)?

[Article 36(4)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a36.html),  [Rule
71.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r71.html)  
The applicant may obtain copies of those documents cited in the international
preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT) which were not
cited in the international search report by requesting them from the
International Preliminary Examining Authority. Annex E indicates the fees
charged by such Authorities for furnishing copies on request.

10.083. What is the effect and usefulness of the international preliminary
report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT) in the national phase?

Since the international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the
PCT) contains an opinion on the compliance of the international application
with internationally accepted criteria of novelty, inventive step (non-
obviousness) and industrial applicability, it provides the applicant with a
strong basis on which to evaluate the chances of obtaining patents in the
various Offices in the national phase. While the international preliminary
report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT) is not binding on elected
Offices, it carries considerable weight with them, and a favorable report will
assist the prosecution of the application before the elected Offices. An
elected Office which is the same national or regional Office as that which
carried out the international preliminary examination as International
Preliminary Examining Authority under the PCT will generally proceed rapidly
to the grant of a patent in the national phase if the international
preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT) is favorable to
the international application.

##  CHAPTER 11: MISCELLANEOUS QUESTIONS CONCERNING THE INTERNATIONAL PHASE

REPRESENTATION BY AGENTS AND COMMON REPRESENTATIVES

11.001. For what purposes may an agent be appointed?

[Rule 90.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html)  
The applicant may appoint an agent or agents to represent him/her before the
receiving Office, the International Bureau, the International Searching
Authority, any Authority specified for supplementary search and the
International Preliminary Examining Authority – that is, for the purposes of
the international phase generally. The applicant may also appoint an agent or
agents to represent him/her specifically before the International Searching
Authority, any Authority specified for supplementary search or before the
International Preliminary Examining Authority. Agents appointed for the
purposes of the international application during the international phase will
not be automatically regarded as agents by national Offices during the
national phase; other agents may thus have to be appointed for the purposes of
the national phase before each of the various designated Offices (refer to
National Chapters, (Summaries)).

11.002. Who may be appointed as an agent?

[Article 49](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a49.html),  [Rule 83.1
_bis_ ,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r83.html) [Rule
90.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html)  
A person may be appointed as agent for the international phase generally if
that person has the right to practice before the Office with which the
international application is filed. Where the international application is
filed with the International Bureau as receiving Office (refer to paragraph
5.008), any person who has the right to practice before the national (or
regional) Office of, or acting for, a Contracting State of which the applicant
(or, if there are two or more applicants, any of the applicants) is a resident
or national (refer to Annex C) may be appointed as agent. A person may be
appointed as agent to represent the applicant specifically before the
International Searching Authority, before any Authority specified for
supplementary search, or before the International Preliminary Examining
Authority if that person has the right to practice before the Office or
intergovernmental organization which acts as that Authority. The right to
practice before an Office or organization is governed by the national law
applied by the Office or organization concerned.

11.003. Are all applicants required to have the same agent?

Each applicant is free to appoint his/her own agent. Ordinarily, however, it
will be convenient for all of two or more applicants to appoint the same
person to represent all of them as their “common agent” (or to appoint a
number of common agents – for example, the partners in the firm of patent
attorneys or patent agents which acts for the applicant).

11.004. Can an agent appoint a sub-agent?

[Rule 90.1(d)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html)  
Any agent who has been appointed to represent the applicant for the
international phase in general may appoint a sub-agent to represent the
applicant, unless there is an indication otherwise in the document by which
the original agent was appointed. Sub-agents may be appointed to represent the
applicant either generally or before a specific International Searching
Authority, Authority specified for supplementary search or International
Preliminary Examining Authority. A sub-agent’s appointment is subject to the
same qualifications as to the right to practice as are set out in paragraph
11.002.

11.005. What is a “common representative” of the applicants?

[Article 9](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a9.html),  [Rule 2.2
_bis_ ,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r2.html) [Rule
90.2(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html)  
Where there are two or more applicants and they have not appointed a common
agent representing all of them for the purposes of the international phase in
general, one of the applicants may be appointed by the other applicants as
their common representative. Only a person who is a national or resident of a
Contracting State, and thus is entitled to file an international application,
may be appointed as common representative.

11.006. What happens if no common agent or common representative is
specifically appointed?

[Rule 2.2 _bis_ ,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r2.html) [Rule 26.2
_bis_(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26.html) [Rule
90.2(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html) [Rule 90
_bis_.5](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90bis.html)  
If there are two or more applicants and they do not appoint a common agent or
a common representative, the first-named applicant who has the right to file
an international application with the receiving Office concerned (refer to
paragraphs 5.020 to 5.023) will automatically be considered to be the common
representative of all the applicants (“deemed common representative”). Such
“deemed common representative” may do most of the things which an appointed
agent or an appointed common representative may do on behalf of all the
applicants, including signing the request, the demand and many other documents
for the purposes of the PCT. However, the “deemed common representative” may
not validly sign, on behalf of the other applicants, a notice effecting
withdrawal of the international application, a designation, one or more
priority claim(s), the demand or an election, without submitting evidence of
their consent to such withdrawal. If the “deemed common representative” has
appointed an agent, that agent is able to perform any act which could be
performed by the “deemed common representative” on behalf of the other
applicants, including the signing of certain documents with effect for all the
applicants (but, similarly, is not able to sign any notice of withdrawal).

11.007. How is an agent or common representative appointed?

[Rule 90.4(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html)  
The appointment of an agent or common representative may be effected in the
request and or the demand (refer to paragraphs 5.041 to 5.049, and 10.019 to
10.023) in a separate power of attorney (refer to paragraph 11.008) or in a
general power of attorney (refer to paragraph 11.009). Where there are two or
more applicants, a common agent or common representative, representing all of
them, may be appointed by a combination of those methods, provided that each
applicant signs either the request, the demand or a power of attorney.

11.008. What are the requirements with respect to a separate power of
attorney?

[Rule 90.4](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html)  
Where the appointment of an agent or common representative is effected by a
separate power of attorney, that power of attorney must be submitted to either
the receiving Office or the International Bureau. However, any receiving
Office, International Searching Authority, Authority specified for
supplementary search, International Preliminary Examining Authority and/or the
International Bureau may waive the requirement that a separate power of
attorney be submitted to it (details of such waivers are published in the
_Official Notices (PCT Gazette)_) in the PCT Newsletter and on the WIPO
website at: <https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/waivers.html>. It should be
noted, however, that a waiver made by an Office, an Authority or the
International Bureau does not apply where the agent or the common
representative submits any notice of withdrawal referred to in Rules 90
_bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4. A suitable model form for a separate power of attorney
is available on the WIPO website at:
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/forms/pa/index.html>.

11.009. Can an agent be appointed by a general power of attorney to represent
the applicant in relation to any international application filed by that
applicant?

[Rule 90.5](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html)  
Yes, such a general appointment can be made. The original general power of
attorney must be filed with the receiving Office if the appointment was for
the purposes of the international phase generally, or with the International
Searching Authority, the Authority specified for supplementary search, or the
International Preliminary Examining Authority if the appointment was
specifically to represent the applicant before that Authority. The appointment
will then be effective in relation to any particular application filed by that
applicant provided that the general power of attorney is referred to in the
request, the demand or a separate notice. However, any receiving Office,
International Searching Authority, Authority specified for supplementary
search, and/or International Preliminary Examining Authority may waive the
requirement that a copy of the general power of attorney be attached to the
request, the supplementary search request, the demand or any separate notice
(details of such waivers are published in the _Official Notices (PCT
Gazette)_). For an Office or Authority that has not made a waiver of the
requirement, a copy of the general power of attorney must be attached to the
request, supplementary search request, demand or separate notice. That copy of
the signed original need not, itself, be separately signed. A suitable model
form for a general power of attorney is available on the WIPO website at:
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/forms/pa/index.html>. It should be noted that a
waiver made by an Office or an Authority does not apply where the agent or the
common representative submits any notice of withdrawal referred to in Rules 90
_bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4.

11.010. What is the legal position of an agent or common representative?

[Rule 90.3](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html)  
Any act by or in relation to an agent or common representative has the effect
of an act by or in relation to the applicant or applicants whom the agent
represents for the purposes of the procedure before the receiving Office,
International Bureau, International Searching Authority, Authority specified
for supplementary search, and/or International Preliminary Examining
Authority, depending on whether the appointment was for general purposes or
for the purposes of the procedure before a particular authority (refer to
paragraph 11.001). In particular, an agent or common representative is able to
sign documents in connection with the international application on behalf of
the applicants. However, an applicant who is the deemed common representative
(refer to paragraph 11.006) may not sign notices of withdrawal on behalf of
the other applicants (refer to paragraphs 11.048, 11.050, 11.056 and 11.060).
If there are two or more agents representing the same applicant or applicants,
an act by or in relation to any of those agents has the effect of an act by or
in relation to that applicant or those applicants.

11.011. Can the appointment of an agent or a common representative be revoked?

[Rule 90.6(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html)  
Yes, it can. The document containing the revocation must be signed by the
persons who made the appointment or by their successors in title. The
appointment of a sub-agent may also be revoked by the applicant concerned. If
the appointment of an agent is revoked, any appointment of a sub-agent by that
agent is also considered revoked.

11.012

[Rule 90.6(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html) [Rule
90.6(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html)  
The appointment of an agent for the international phase in general
automatically has the effect, unless otherwise indicated, of revoking any
earlier such appointment of an agent. The appointment of a common
representative similarly has the effect, unless otherwise indicated, of
revoking any earlier appointment of a common representative.

11.013

The rules for signing and submission of a power of attorney apply _mutatis
mutandis_ to a revocation of an appointment (refer to paragraphs 11.007 and
11.008).

11.014. How can an agent or common representative renounce his/her
appointment?

[Rule 90.6(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html) [Rule
90.6(e),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html) [Section
425](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s425.html)  
Renunciation of an appointment may be made by means of a notification signed
by the agent or common representative. The Rules for signing and submission of
a power of attorney apply _mutatis mutandis_ to a renunciation (refer to
paragraphs 11.007 and 11.008). The applicant is informed of the renunciation
by the International Bureau.

CORRESPONDENCE TO THE APPLICANT

11.015. To whom will correspondence be addressed by the various authorities
under the PCT?

[Section 108(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s108.html)  
Where there is a sole applicant in relation to an international application,
correspondence will be sent to the applicant at the address indicated; or, if
one or more agents have been appointed, to that agent or the first-mentioned
of those agents; or, if there is no appointed agent, but a special address has
been indicated for notifications (refer to paragraphs 5.030 and 5.051), to
that special address.

11.016

[Section 108(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s108.html)  
Where there are two or more applicants who have appointed one or more common
agents, correspondence will be addressed to that agent or the first-mentioned
of those agents. Where no common agent has been appointed, correspondence will
be addressed to the common representative (either the appointed common
representative or the applicant who is the “deemed common representative” –
refer to paragraphs 11.005 and 11.006) at the address indicated; or, if the
common representative has appointed one or more agents, to that agent or the
first-mentioned of those agents; or, if the common representative has not
appointed an agent but has indicated a special address for notifications, to
that special address.

11.017

[Section 108(d)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s108.html)  
Where one or more agents have been appointed specifically to represent the
applicant(s) before the International Searching Authority, the Authority
specified for supplementary search, or the International Preliminary Examining
Authority, correspondence will be addressed by the Authority concerned to that
agent or the first-mentioned of those agents.

CHANGES CONCERNING THE APPLICANT, INVENTOR, AGENT OR COMMON REPRESENTATIVE

11.018. What should be done where there is a change in the person, name,
residence, nationality or address of the applicant, or in the person, name or
address of the inventor, agent or common representative?

[Rule 92 _bis_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r92bis.html),
[Section 422](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s422.html)  
Where there is a change in the person, name, residence, nationality or address
of the applicant, or in the person, name or address of the inventor, agent or
common representative, the applicant or the receiving Office should ask the
International Bureau to record the change. If so requested, the International
Bureau records the change and notifies all Offices and PCT Authorities
interested in the change accordingly. Any such recording is free of charge.

11.018A. Where should requests for change be sent?

While Rule 92 _bis_ provides for the possibility, at the choice of the
applicant, to send requests for change to the receiving Office or the
International Bureau, it is strongly recommended to send them directly to the
International Bureau, preferably via ePCT (signing in with strong
authentication or without strong authentication at
<https://pct.wipo.int/ePCT>). It is important that the International Bureau -
and not the receiving Office - receives the request for change in order to
meet the applicable time limit of 30 months from the priority date.

11.018B. Does the applicant need to provide any documentary evidence?

Where the applicant or agent of record requests a change, it is not necessary
to produce any documentary evidence relating to the change. In particular,
where the applicant or agent of record requests a change in the person of the
applicant, the International Bureau does not require an assignment or other
documentary evidence to show the transfer of rights. Assignments and other
documentary evidence relating to any transfer of rights may, however, be
required by the designated Offices once national processing has started; the
National Chapters of this Guide give details on this matter. If the agent of
record wishes to also represent the new applicant, a power of attorney, signed
by the new applicant, should be furnished at the same time, unless the Office
or Authority with which the request is filed has waived the requirement that a
power be furnished (refer to paragraphs 11.008 and 11.009). It should be noted
that the International Bureau has waived such a requirement (refer to
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/waivers.html>).

Where a person not yet named in the request form, hereinafter referred to as
the new applicant, without the written consent of the applicant of record,
requests a change in the person of the applicant, a copy of an assignment or
other documentary evidence supporting the change in person must be filed with
the request for the change. Where the request for a change of applicant is
made by a (new) agent for the new applicant, a power of attorney signed by the
new applicant must be furnished in addition to the documentary evidence unless
the Office or Authority with which the request is filed has waived the
requirement that a separate power of attorney, or a copy of a general power of
attorney, has to be submitted (refer to paragraphs 11.008 and 11.009). It
should be noted that the International Bureau has not waived that requirement
and, as a consequence, a new power of attorney will always be required when
filing this type of request for a change with the International Bureau.

[Section 422 _bis_(a)(iii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s422bis.html)  
Where an applicant is requested to be deleted from the records and that
request was not also signed by or on behalf of the applicant concerned, the
International Bureau will send a copy of the notification of change (Form
PCT/IB/306) to the applicant who has been removed from the records. This also
applies where the request is signed by an agent on behalf of the applicants
who is only deemed appointed since the receiving Office has waived the
requirement that a power of attorney must be submitted. In case the applicant
concerned objects to the change in writing during the international phase, the
recorded change would be undone.

Where a patent agent changes to a new firm and requests that the change be
recorded, such change would be considered as a change of address and a new
power need not be furnished.

11.018C. Must a new applicant be a national or resident of a contracting
State?

It is not necessary, in order for a change in the person of the applicant to
be recorded, that the new applicant be a resident or national of a PCT
Contracting State; the PCT does not contain any restriction as to whom an
international application may be assigned. The applicant's right to file the
international application is determined solely on the basis of the nationality
and residence of the applicant(s) indicated in the request form at the time
when the international application is filed. However, the residence and
nationality of the new applicant must be borne in mind in considering whether
that applicant has the right to file a demand for international preliminary
examination (refer to paragraphs 10.017 and 10.018).

11.018D. What other kind of changes are covered by Rule 92 _bis_?

Changes concerning the addition or deletion of indications relating to
applicants and/or inventors, the order of applicants and/or inventors in the
request form, changes relating to e-mail addresses etc. will also be recorded
under Rule 92 _bis_ if requested.

It should be noted that it is not possible during the international phase to
record rights of third parties, such as licenses, pledges or other security
interests. Such changes, to the extent provided for under the applicable
national law, can only be recorded during the national phase and in accordance
with the applicable national procedures.

11.019. Where a change affects multiple applications, may the applicant make a
single request?

Where a change concerns multiple pending international applications, it is
recommended that applicants submit a single written request and include a list
of the PCT applications concerned (and not a separate request for each
application). The list should only include pending international applications,
that is, applications for which the 30-month time limit from the priority date
has not yet expired.

11.020. Is there a special form for requesting the recording of changes under
Rule 92 _bis_?

There is no special form for requesting the recording of changes under Rule 92
_bis_. The request may be presented in the form of a letter to the receiving
Office or the International Bureau, clearly specifying the application
concerned and which information is requested to be changed. Where the request
concerns a change in a name or address and the application is filed in a
language which uses non-Latin characters, in addition to the new name or
address in the language of filing, a transliteration or translation of the new
name or address into English must also be provided. It is strongly recommended
to file such requests directly with the International Bureau through ePCT
(signing in with strong authentication or without strong authentication at
<https://pct.wipo.int/ePCT>).

11.021. What is the time limit to request the recording of changes?

[Rule 92 _bis_.1(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r92bis.html)  
The International Bureau records the change if it receives the request for
recording before the expiration of 30 months (regardless of the precise time
limit applicable to enter the national phase, Office by Office, such as 31
months or later) from the priority date. If the applicant wants a particular
change to be taken into account for international publication of the
application, the request for change must reach the International Bureau before
technical preparations for international publication have been completed
(refer to paragraph 9.014). If the request reaches the International Bureau
too late to be reflected in the international publication but within the
30-month time limit, it will nevertheless be acted upon and notified to the
designated/elected Offices. The bibliographic data page of PATENTSCOPE is
updated to reflect any recorded change until the expiration of 30 months. If
the request reaches the International Bureau after the expiration of 30
months, the change will not be recorded and the applicant will have to proceed
with such request before each designated/elected Office.

11.022. What is the legal effect of any recorded change?

In principle, all designated and elected Offices are obliged to accept changes
recorded by the International Bureau. However, Offices are entitled to require
additional evidence or documents in the national phase regarding changes
recorded during the international phase (for information on the Offices which
require additional documents in the national phase, including a new request
for change specifically for the national phase before a particular Office,
refer to the relevant Summary in the National Chapters of this Guide).

DEATH OF APPLICANT OR INVENTOR

11.023. What should be done in the case of the death of the applicant during
the international phase?

[Article 27(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a27.html),  [Rule
92 _bis_.1(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r92bis.html)  
The answer to this question depends on the national law applicable in such a
case. The successor to the rights of the applicant (whether an heir, a legal
representative, the estate represented by a legal representative, etc.) should
be indicated as the new applicant, and a request for such a change to be
recorded accordingly should be made under Rule 92 _bis_.1 (refer to the
procedure outlined in paragraphs 11.018 to 11.022). The reason for the
requested change must be indicated. Documentary evidence proving the right to
the application is not required during the international phase (although it
may be required by any designated Office for the purposes of the national
phase of processing).

11.024. [Deleted]

11.025. What should be done if the inventor died before the international
application was filed?

[Article 9](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a9.html),  [Rule
18.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r18.html)  
In such a case, the request must indicate the name of the deceased inventor
with an indication that he/she is deceased, for instance: “JONES, Bernard
(deceased).”

11.026. What should be done in the case of the death of the inventor during
the international phase?

In such a case, the recording of a change to indicate that the inventor is
deceased may be requested; where such indication is added, the inventor’s
address would be removed.

APPLICANT UNAVAILABLE OR UNWILLING TO SIGN THE INTERNATIONAL APPLICATION OR
OTHER DOCUMENTS

11.027. What must be done if the applicant is temporarily unavailable to sign
the international application?

[Article 14(1)(a)(i)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a14.html),
[Article 14(1)(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a14.html),
[Rule 26.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26.html) [Rule 26.2
_bis_ ,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r26.html) [Section
316](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s316.html)  
Where an applicant is temporarily unavailable, the international application
can be filed without that applicant’s signature. The lack of an applicant’s
signature or of a power of attorney signed by that applicant, where either of
these might be required, are correctable defects under Article 14(1)(a)(i) and
(b), and can be remedied by filing a copy of the request (or, where the
request has been signed by an agent, of a power of attorney (where this might
be necessary)), duly signed by the applicant within the time limit fixed by
the receiving Office for the correction of these potential defects (refer to
paragraph 6.032).

11.028. - 11.032. [Deleted]

RECTIFICATION OF OBVIOUS MISTAKES

11.033. Can obvious mistakes be rectified by the applicant?

[Rule 91.1(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r91.html) [Rule
91.1(g)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r91.html)  
Obvious mistakes in the international application or other documents submitted
by the applicant may generally be rectified if the rectification is requested
within the applicable time limit. Any such rectification is effected free of
charge. Rule 91 considers certain mistakes to be not “rectifiable” (refer to
paragraph 11.037) and requires applicants to rely on other means of correction
(refer to Rules 20.4, 20.5, 26 _bis_ and 38.3).

11.034. What types of mistakes can be rectified?

[Rule 91.1(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r91.html)  
Only obvious mistakes can be rectified. A mistake is considered obvious if it
is obvious to the competent authority that, at the relevant date (refer to
paragraph 11.036), something else was intended than what appears in the
document concerned, and that nothing else could have been intended other than
the proposed rectification. In other words, both the mistake and the
rectification of that mistake have to be obvious to the competent authority.

11.035. Is there any limitation on the kind of documents which an authority
could consider when determining whether a mistake is obvious?

[Rule 91.1(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r91.html) [Rule
91.1(e)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r91.html)  
If the mistake is contained in the description, the claims or the drawings, or
in a correction or any amendment thereof, the competent authority is limited,
for the purposes of determining whether both the mistake and the proposed
rectification are obvious (refer to paragraph 11.034), to only take into
account the contents of the description, the claims and the drawings and,
where applicable, of the correction or amendment concerned. If the mistake is
contained in the request or a correction thereof or in any other document
mentioned in Rule 91.1(b)(iv), the competent authority should, for the
purposes of determining whether both the mistake and the proposed
rectification are obvious, take into account not only the content of the
international application itself and, where applicable, the correction
concerned and any other document referred to in Rule 91.1(b)(iv), but also any
other document submitted by the applicant together with the request,
correction or document, as the case may be, including any priority document
that is available to that competent authority. Furthermore, the authority
should also take into account any other document contained in the authority’s
international application file at the relevant date (refer to paragraph
11.036).

11.036. What is the relevant date applied by the competent authority for the
determination of whether a mistake and its rectification are obvious?

[Rule 91.1(f)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r91.html)  
Where the mistake appears in the international application as filed, the
relevant date is the international filing date; where the mistake appears in
any document other than the international application as filed, including any
mistake in a correction or an amendment of the international application, the
relevant date is the date on which the document (correction and/or amendment)
concerned was submitted.

11.037. Which mistakes cannot be rectified under Rule 91?

[Rule 91.1(g)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r91.html)  
The following mistakes cannot be rectified under Rule 91:

— omissions of entire elements or sheets of the international application,
even if clearly resulting from inattention at the stage of filing of the
international application, for example, when copying or assembling sheets;

— mistakes in the abstract;

— mistakes in an amendment under Article 19, unless the International
Preliminary Examining Authority is the competent authority to authorize the
rectification of such mistakes under Rule 91.1(b)(iii);

— mistakes in a priority claim or in a notice correcting or adding a priority
claim if the rectification of the mistake would cause a change in the priority
date (refer to paragraph 6.038 concerning whether such mistakes can instead be
corrected under Rule 26 _bis_.1(a));

11.038. Do rectifications of obvious mistakes need to be authorized by a
particular Office?

[Rule 91.1(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r91.html)  
Yes, rectifications must be authorized by the competent PCT authority, that
is:

(i) if the mistake is in the request or in any correction thereof - by the
receiving Office;

(ii) if the mistake is in the description, the claims or the drawings or in
any correctionthereof - by the International Searching Authority, or by the
International Preliminary Examining Authority where a demand for international
preliminary examination has been made and has not been withdrawn and the date
on which the international preliminary examination should start pursuant to
Rule 69.1 has passed;

(iii) if the mistake is in the description, the claims or the drawings or any
correction thereof, or in any amendment under Article 19 or 34, and if a
demand for international preliminary examination has been made and has not
been withdrawn and if the date on which the international preliminary
examination should start pursuant to Rule 69.1 has passed - by the
International Preliminary Examining Authority;

(iv) if the mistake is in any document other than those referred to in item
(i) to (iii) above submitted to the receiving Office, the International
Searching Authority, the International Preliminary Examining Authority or the
International Bureau, other than a mistake in the abstract or in an amendment
under Article 19 - by that Office, Authority or Bureau, as the case may be.

11.039. Where and when must a request for rectification be sent?

[Rule 91.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r91.html)  
The request for rectification must be addressed to the authority competent to
authorize the rectification (refer to paragraph 11.038). It must be filed
within 26 months from the priority date. The request must specify the mistake
to be rectified and the proposed rectification; it can also contain a brief
explanation if the applicant so wishes. The procedure provided for in Rule
26.4 (refer to paragraph 6.052) applies as to the manner in which the proposed
rectification should be indicated.

11.040. Can a competent authority invite the applicant to correct an obvious
mistake?

[Rule 91.1(h)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r91.html)  
Where the receiving Office, the International Searching Authority, the
International Preliminary Authority or the International Bureau discovers what
appears to be a rectifiable obvious mistake in the international application
or in any other document, it may invite the applicant to file a request for
rectification under Rule 91.

11.041. What steps will the competent authority take once a request for
rectification of an obvious mistake has been filed?

[Rule 48.2(i),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r48.html) [Rule
70.16(a)(iii),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r70.html) [Rule
91.3(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r91.html) [Rule
91.3(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r91.html)  
Once the applicant has filed a request for rectification of an obvious
mistake, the competent authority promptly decides whether to authorize or to
refuse the requested rectification and promptly notifies its decision to the
applicant and the International Bureau. In case of a refusal, the competent
authority should also inform the applicant and the International Bureau of the
reasons for the refusal. Where the competent authority has authorized the
rectification of an obvious mistake under Rule 91, the document concerned
shall be rectified in accordance with Sections 325, 413 _bis_ , 511 and 607 of
the Administrative Instructions. Where the rectification has been authorized
by the receiving Office, the International Searching Authority or the
International Bureau, the International Bureau publishes the rectified sheets
as part of the international application if the authorization is received or
given by the International Bureau before completion of technical preparations
for international publication. Where such authorization is received or given
only after technical preparations have been completed, the International
Bureau will republish the international application in accordance with Rule
48.2(i). Where the rectification is authorized by the International
Preliminary Examining Authority, the rectified sheets and the request for
rectification of an obvious mistake submitted by the applicant are annexed to
the IPRP (Chapter II of the PCT).

11.042. When does the rectification of an obvious mistake become effective?

[Rule 91.3(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r91.html)  
If the mistake appears in the international application as filed, the
rectification becomes effective as from the international filing date; if the
mistake appears in any document other than the international application as
filed, including any mistake in a correction or any amendment to the
international application, the rectification becomes effective as from the
date on which that document was submitted.

11.043. What can be done if the authorization of a rectification is refused?

[Rule 91.3(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r91.html) [Section
113(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s113.html)  
If the authorization of a rectification is refused, the applicant may request
the International Bureau, within two months from the date of the refusal, in
writing, to publish the request for rectification, the reasons for refusal by
the authority and any further brief comments that may be submitted by the
applicant, together with the international application. This request is
subject to the payment at the same time of a special fee, the amount of which
is indicated in Annex B (IB). Once the request for rectification and the
reasons for refusal have been published, the applicant may pursue it further
before the designated Offices under their national law and practice for the
rectification of obvious mistakes. Refused requests for rectification are not
annexed to the IPRP except in certain circumstances as set out in paragraph
10.076.

11.044. What are the effects of the authorization of an obvious mistake on the
designated and elected Offices?

[Rule 91.3(e),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r91.html) [Rule
91.3(f)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r91.html)  
Generally, designated and elected Offices must process the international
application in the national phase “as rectified”, unless that designated or
elected Office has already started the processing or examination of the
international application before the date on which that Office is notified
under Rule 91.3(a) by the International Bureau of the authorization of the
rectification concerned. Otherwise, a designated or elected Office may only
disregard a rectification that was authorized under Rule 91.1 if it finds that
it would not have authorized the rectification of the obvious mistake if it
had been the competent authority. In the latter case, the designated Office
may, however, only disregard any rectification that was authorized during the
international phase, if it has given the applicant an opportunity to make
observations, within a reasonable time limit, on the Office’s intention to
disregard the rectification.

AMENDMENTS OF THE CLAIMS, DESCRIPTION AND DRAWINGS

11.045. How, and at what stages, may the claims, description and drawings in
an international application be amended?

[Article 19](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a19.html),  [Article
34(2)(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a34.html)  
As described elsewhere in this text, during the international phase the
applicant has one opportunity to amend the claims under Article 19 after
receiving the international search report (refer to paragraphs 9.004 to
9.011). Amendments may also be made under Article 34(2)(b) to the description,
claims and drawings before and during the international preliminary
examination procedure (refer to paragraphs 10.024 to 10.028, and 10.067 to
10.071). Such amendments are in addition to the possibilities for correction
of defects under Article 11 and Rule 20 (refer to paragraphs 6.024 to 6.026)
and Article 14 and Rule 26 (refer to paragraph 6.032), and to the possibility
for rectification of obvious mistakes under Rule 91.1 (refer to paragraphs
11.033 to 11.044). Applicants are also guaranteed the opportunity to amend the
international application for the purposes of the national phase by virtue of
Articles 28 and 41 (refer to National Chapters).

11.046. In what language should amendments be submitted during the
international phase?

[Rule 46.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r46.html) [Rule
55.3](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r55.html)  
Concerning the language in which amendments of the claims under Article 19
must be submitted, refer to paragraphs 9.004 and 9.017 to 9.019; concerning
the language in which amendments of the description, claims and/or drawings
under Article 34 must be submitted, refer to paragraph 10.071.

11.047. May amendments to the claims, description or drawings during the
international phase introduce new matter into the international application?

[Article 19(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a19.html),
Article19(3),  [Article
34(2)(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a34.html),  [Rule
66.2(a)(iv),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html) [Rule
70.2(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r70.html)  
Article 19(2) and Article 34(2)(b) both provide that amendments are not to go
beyond the disclosure in the international application as filed. Compliance
will not be checked during the international phase unless the applicant
requests international preliminary examination. If the International
Preliminary Examining Authority considers that any amendments go beyond the
original disclosure, it will comment accordingly in any written opinion of the
International Preliminary Examining Authority and in the international
preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT), and the report
will be established as if such amendment had not been made (refer to
paragraphs 10.064(iv) and 10.070). Compliance with the requirement may be
important during the national phase, when it may be checked by the designated
Offices, and non‑ may result at that stage in adverse consequences such as
disallowance of the amendments or the according of a later filing date for any
new matter claimed as a result of the amendments concerned. On the other hand,
if the national law applicable in a designated Office permits amendments to go
beyond the disclosure in the application as filed, non-compliance with the
requirement has no consequence in the State concerned. Although customary in
most national laws and contained in the European Patent Convention, the
requirement is not one which - by virtue of the PCT - would bind any of the
Contracting States. It is contained in the PCT because most laws provide for
it, and it therefore seems to be a useful warning to all applicants planning
to make amendments in the international phase.

11.047A. What happens where the claims, description or drawings have been
amended, but the replacement sheets were not accompanied by a letter?

[Article 19(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a19.html),
[Article 34(2)(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a34.html),
[Rule 46.5(b)(iii),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r46.html) [Rule
66.8,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html) [Rule
70.2(c-_bis_)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r70.html)  
The PCT requires that replacement sheets submitted with Article 19 or Article
34 amendments must be accompanied by a letter indicating the basis for the
amendment in the application as filed (refer to paragraph 9.005, 9.006 and
10.071). Substantive compliance with this requirement is not checked during
the international phase unless the applicant requests international
preliminary examination. If the International Preliminary Examining Authority
finds that the replacement sheets were either not accompanied by such a letter
or that the letter failed to indicate the basis for the amendment, the
International Preliminary Examining Authority may establish the international
preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT) as if such
amendment had not been made. Compliance with this requirement may also be
important during the national phase, when it may be checked by the designated
Offices, and failure to comply may result in disallowance of the amendments.

WITHDRAWALS

11.048. Can the applicant withdraw the international application?

[Rule 90.4(e),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html) [Rule
90.5(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90.html) [Rule 90
_bis_.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90bis.html) [Rule 90
_bis_.5](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90bis.html)  
The applicant may withdraw the international application by a notice addressed
to the International Bureau or to the receiving Office or, where Article 39(1)
applies, to the International Preliminary Examining Authority, and received
before the expiration of 30 months (refer to paragraph 5.005) from the
priority date. Any such withdrawal is free of charge. A notice of withdrawal
must be signed by all the applicants.

An appointed agent or appointed common representative may sign such a notice
on behalf of the applicant or applicants who appointed him/her, but an
applicant who is the “deemed common representative” (refer to paragraph
11.006) may not sign such a notice on behalf of the other applicants. Where an
Office, Authority or the International Bureau has waived the requirement that
a separate power of attorney, or a copy of a general power of attorney, has to
be furnished, the waiver does not apply in respect of any notice of
withdrawal.

11.049. What is the effect of withdrawal of an international application or
the priority claim on international publication?

[Article 21(5)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a21.html),  [Rule
90 _bis_.1(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90bis.html)  
The applicant may prevent international publication by withdrawing the
international application as described in paragraph 9.023A.

International publication may be postponed by withdrawing the priority claim
as outlined in paragraphs 11.056 and 11.057.

11.050. Can the applicant withdraw designations?

[Rule 90 _bis_.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90bis.html) [Rule
90 _bis_.5](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90bis.html)  
The applicant may withdraw the designation of any State, and in respect of any
kind of protection available, or only in respect of some of the kinds of
protection available, by a notice addressed to the International Bureau or to
the receiving Office or, where Article 39(1) applies, to the International
Preliminary Examining Authority, and received before the expiration of 30
months (refer to paragraph 5.005) from the priority date. Any such withdrawal
is free of charge. A notice of withdrawal must be signed by all the
applicants. An appointed agent or appointed common representative may sign
such a notice on behalf of the applicant or applicants who appointed him/her,
but an applicant who is the “deemed common representative” (refer to paragraph
11.006) may not sign such a notice on behalf of the other applicants.

11.051. What is the effect of withdrawal of a designation?

[Rule 90 _bis_.2(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90bis.html)  
Withdrawal of the designation of a State which has been elected for the
purposes of international preliminary examination automatically results in
withdrawal of the corresponding election.

11.052

[Rule 90 _bis_.2(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90bis.html)  
Where a State has been designated for the purposes of obtaining both a
national patent and a regional patent (refer to paragraphs 4.022 to 4.026, and
5.052 to 5.053), withdrawal of the designation of that State is taken to mean
withdrawal only of the designation for the purpose of obtaining a national
patent, unless otherwise indicated. In practice, the applicant should always
make it clear which of the designations is intended to be withdrawn.

11.053

[Rule 90 _bis_.2(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90bis.html)  
If all designations are withdrawn, the international application itself will
be treated as withdrawn.

11.054

[Rule 90 _bis_.2(e)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90bis.html)  
A designation will not be published if the notice of its withdrawal reaches
the International Bureau before the technical preparations for international
publication have been completed (refer to paragraph 9.014).

11.055

Where the international application indicates different applicants for
different designated States, the withdrawal of a designation may result in the
applicant for the designation which is withdrawn being no longer an applicant
for any designated State. In such a case, replacement sheets for the request
indicating only the remaining applicants, namely those for the States the
designations of which have not been withdrawn, should be furnished together
with the notice of withdrawal. Should the applicant fail to submit a
replacement sheet, the request is corrected by the receiving Office or by the
International Bureau. Whichever authority makes the correction notifies the
other and the applicant accordingly.

11.056. Can the applicant withdraw priority claims made in the international
application?

[Rule 90 _bis_.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90bis.html) [Rule
90 _bis_.5](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90bis.html)  
The applicant may withdraw a priority claim made in the international
application by a notice addressed to the International Bureau or to the
receiving Office or, where Article 39(1) applies, to the International
Preliminary Examining Authority, and received before the expiration of 30
months (refer to paragraph 5.005) from the priority date. Any or all of the
priority claims may be so withdrawn. Any such withdrawal is free of charge. A
notice of withdrawal must be signed by all the applicants. An appointed agent
or appointed common representative may sign such a notice on behalf of the
applicant or applicants who appointed him/her, but an applicant who is the
“deemed common representative” (refer to paragraph 11.006) may not sign such a
notice on behalf of the other applicants.

11.057. How are time limits calculated after the withdrawal of a priority
claim?

[Rule 90 _bis_.3(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90bis.html)
[Rule 90 _bis_.3(e)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90bis.html)  
Where the withdrawal of a priority claim causes a change in the priority date
of the international application, any time limit which is computed from the
original priority date and which has not yet expired - for example, the time
limit before which processing in the national phase cannot start - is computed
from the priority date resulting from the change. (It is not possible to
extend the time limit concerned if it has already expired when the priority
claim is withdrawn.) However, if the notice of withdrawal reaches the
International Bureau after the completion of the technical preparations for
international publication, the International Bureau may proceed with the
international publication on the basis of the time limit for international
publication as computed from the original priority date.

11.058. Can the applicant withdraw a supplementary search request?

[Rule 90 _bis_.3 _bis_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90bis.html)  
The applicant may withdraw a supplementary search request at any time prior to
the date of transmittal to the applicant of the supplementary international
search report or the declaration that no such report will be established.
However, withdrawal of the request will only result in a refund of any fees
paid if the International Bureau has not yet transmitted any document to the
Authority specified for supplementary search. A notice of withdrawal may be
addressed either to the International Bureau or to the Authority specified for
supplementary search, and the withdrawal will be effective on receipt of the
notice by that Authority or the International Bureau. However, if the notice
does not reach the Authority specified for supplementary search in sufficient
time to prevent the transmittal of the report or declaration, the report or
declaration will still be communicated to each designated Office as required.
Where there are two or more supplementary search requests that have been
submitted in respect of the same international application, the notice must
specify which, of any such requests, is intended to be withdrawn.

11.059. Who must sign a notice of withdrawal for a supplementary search
request?

The notice of withdrawal of the supplementary search request must be signed by
the applicant or, if there are two or more applicants, by all of them, or by
the agent or common representative whose appointment has been effected by each
applicant signing either the request, the supplementary search request, the
demand, or a power of attorney.

11.060. Can the applicant withdraw the demand for international preliminary
examination or the election of any State?

[Article 37](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a37.html),  [Rule 90
_bis_.4,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90bis.html) [Rule 90
_bis_.5](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90bis.html)  
The applicant may withdraw the demand or the election of any State at any time
prior to the expiration of 30 months from the priority date by a notice
addressed to the International Bureau. Any such withdrawal is free of charge.
A notice of withdrawal must be signed by all the applicants. An appointed
agent or appointed common representative may sign such a notice on behalf of
the applicant or applicants who appointed him/her, but an applicant who is the
“deemed common representative” (refer to paragraph 11.006) may not sign such a
notice on behalf of the other applicants.

11.061

[Article 37(4)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a37.html)  
In respect of designated Offices which do not apply the 30-month time limit,
the applicant should exercise care in withdrawing the demand or elections
after the expiration of the time limit under Article 22 for entry into the
national phase, since such withdrawal is treated in each of the elected States
concerned as a withdrawal of the international application for that State
unless the national phase has already started in that State. If withdrawal of
the demand or elections is effected before the expiration of that time limit,
however, the international application will not be considered withdrawn, but
the applicant will, of course, have to take the usual steps before the
expiration of that time limit to enter the national phase (refer to paragraph
5.005 and National Phase, paragraph
[3.001](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctnp&doc-
lang=en&doc-type=guide#_3.001)). For further details, refer to Article 37(4).

COMPUTATION OF TIME LIMITS

11.062. What are the rules concerning the computation of time limits?

[Rule 80](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r80.html)  
There are detailed provisions in Rule 80 concerning the computation of time
limits (whether expressed in years, months or days), including the case where
a time limit expires on a non-working day. The days which are non-working days
for the International Bureau are published periodically in the _Official
Notices (PCT Gazette)_ and in the PCT Newsletter. The PCT Time Limit
Calculator is designed to assist applicants in computing PCT time limits and
is available on the WIPO website at:
<https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/PctTimeline.xhtml?lang=en>. Where a
period starts on the date of a notification, that period may be extended if
the notification was actually mailed on a later date or was received more than
seven days after the date it bears; refer to Rule 80.6 for details. For
computation of time limits based on the priority date in cases where the
priority claim is withdrawn, refer to paragraph 11.057.

IRREGULARITIES IN THE MAIL SERVICE

11.063. Can a delay or loss in the mail be excused?

[Article 48(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a48.html),  [Rule
82.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r82.html)  
Rule 82 contains detailed provisions governing the situation where a letter
arrives late or gets lost due to irregularities in the mail service, for
example, because the mail service was interrupted due to a strike. The
provisions operate to excuse failure to meet a time limit for filing a
document for up to six months after the expiration of the time limit
concerned, provided that the document was mailed at least five days before the
expiration of the time limit. In order to take advantage of these provisions,
the mailing must have been by registered airmail or, where surface mail would
normally arrive at the destination concerned within two days of mailing, by
registered surface mail. Evidence is required to satisfy the Office or
organization concerned, and a substitute document must be filed promptly -
refer to Rule 82.1(b) and (c) for details.

11.064. Can a delay or loss be excused where a delivery service is used?

[Rule 82.1(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r82.html) [Rule
82.1(e)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r82.html)  
Some national Offices and intergovernmental organizations also apply these
provisions where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used
to mail documents or letters; refer to Rule 82.1(d) and (e) for details, and
Annexes B for information about which Offices and organizations recognize use
of delivery services for this purpose, and in what circumstances Rule 82.1
will apply to such use.

EXCUSE OF DELAY IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

11.065. Can a delay in meeting time limits caused by “ _force majeure_ ”
circumstances be excused?

[Rule 82 _quater_.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r82quater.html)
[Section 111](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s111.html)  
The provisions of Rule 82 _quater_.1 provide a basis for a general excuse of
delay in meeting time limits before Offices, Authorities or the International
Bureau during the international phase, when resulting from _force majeure_
circumstances like war, revolution, civil disorder, strike, natural calamity,
epidemic, a general unavailability of electronic communications services or
other like reason in the locality where the applicant resides, has a place of
business or is staying. The excuse of delay only applies to time limits fixed
in the Regulations and therefore it neither applies to the priority period,
since the priority period is set by Article 4C of the Paris Convention (for
restoration of the right of priority refer to paragraphs 5.062 to 5.068), nor
to the time limit for entering the national phase in accordance with Articles
22 and 39 (refer to paragraphs 5.005 and 5.006).

11.065A

To request an excuse of delay in meeting time limits resulting from _force
majeure_ circumstances under Rule 82 _quater_.1, the applicant must take the
relevant actions (submission of documents, responses to invitations or the
payment of fees) as soon as reasonably possible. Generally, this means within
a short period of the cause of the delay ceasing to apply. For example, in
cases where a strike prevented an agent from reaching his/her office, it would
be expected that the action should, in most cases, be taken either the next
working day or shortly thereafter, depending on how much preparatory work had
been disrupted. On the other hand, where a disaster has resulted in the
complete destruction of an agent’s files, it would reasonably be expected to
take longer to reassemble all the necessary documents and systems to allow the
necessary action to be taken. In the case of general unavailability of
electronic communication services, the applicant must establish that the
outage affected a widespread geographical area rather than being a localized
problem, that it was unexpected or unforeseen, and that there was no
alternative communication means available. The request for the excusing of the
delay and the relevant evidence must be submitted to the competent Office or
Authority or the International Bureau as soon as reasonably possible and, in
any case, not later than six months after the expiration of the applicable
time limit.

As to the form of evidence which would be acceptable, for example, a news
report from a reliable mass media outlet, or a statement or announcement from
the relevant national authority is normally acceptable for this purpose. In
the case of general unavailability of electronic communications services, a
statement from the provider of Internet services or the company providing
electricity to the applicant may also be acceptable.

An Office, Authority or the International Bureau may waive the requirement for
evidence, for example, where it is aware of the occurrence of an event in a
particular State or place which would justify an excuse of delay in meeting
time limits. The Office, Authority or the International Bureau, as the case
may be, sets and publishes the conditions for any such waiver, and notifies
the International Bureau, which publishes the information in question in the
Gazette. The interested party must nevertheless submit a request to excuse the
delay and state that the delay was due to the situation to which the waiver
applies.

11.065B. Can a delay in meeting time limits caused by the unavailability of
electronic means of communication at an Office or intergovernmental
organization be excused?

[Rule 82 _quater_.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r82quater.html)
[Section 111](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s111.html)  
Rule 82 _quater_.2 allows any Office or intergovernmental organization to
provide for a general excuse of delay in meeting time limits if the failure to
meet the time limit was due to the unavailability of any permitted electronic
means of communication at that Office or organization. If the Office or
organization so provides, it notifies the International Bureau which will
publish the information in the Gazette and on WIPO’s website at:
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/unavailability.html>. Moreover, at the time
when such an event has taken place (e.g., an unforeseen outage) or is
scheduled to take place (e.g., a scheduled maintenance), the Office or
organization publishes information about the unavailability including the
duration and notifies the International Bureau which will publish the
information on any such unavailability, including the period of the
unavailability, in the Gazette. The excuse of delay only applies to time
limits fixed in the Regulations and therefore it neither applies to the
priority period, since the priority period is set by Article 4C of the Paris
Convention (for restoration of the right of priority refer to paragraphs 5.062
to 5.068), nor to the time limit for entering the national phase in accordance
with Articles 22 and 39 (refer to paragraphs 5.005 and 5.006).

11.065C

Where the applicant failed to meet a time limit due to the unavailability of
one of the permitted electronic means of communication at the Office or
organization (refer to paragraph 11.065B), she/he must perform the relevant
action on the next working day on which the said electronic means of
communication becomes available and request for excuse of delay indicating
that the time limit was not met due to the unavailability of one of the
permitted electronic means of communication at the Office or organization at
the time of attempted submission.

EXTENSION OF TIME LIMITS

11.065D. May an Office or intergovernmental organization generally extend time
limits in situations of “ __force majeure__ ”?

[Rule 82 _quater_.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r82quater.html)
[Section 111](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s111.html)  
Rule 82 _quater_.3 allows Offices, Authorities and the International Bureau in
exceptional circumstances and due to a _force majeure_ event, to establish a
period of extension such that time limits fixed in the Regulations are
generally extended during the international phase. An Office or
intergovernmental organization may take such a decision where the State in
which it is located is experiencing a general disruption caused by an event
listed in Rule 82 _quater_.1(a) (for the list of events refer to paragraph
11.065) and that general disruption affects the operations at the said Office
or organization in such a manner that it impacts the ability of parties to
perform actions before that Office or organization within the time limits
fixed in the Regulations, for example in the case of an epidemic or a natural
disaster, or where the infrastructure (such as electricity supply, water
supply or roads) in the place where the Office or organization is located has
been seriously damaged due to an earthquake or tsunami.

To the extent that the general disruption continues, the Office or Authority
concerned or the International Bureau may establish additional periods of
extension. Any period or additional period of extension may not be longer than
two months from the date it began. Where an Office, Authority or the
International Bureau extends or additionally extends time limits, it publishes
information about the beginning and end dates of the period concerned, and the
International Bureau publishes that information in the Gazette and on WIPO’s
website. Any time limit fixed in the Regulations which would expire during
that period would, subject to Rule 80.5, expire on the first day after the
expiration of that period or additional period. The applicant does not need to
request the extension.

Any such extension may only apply to time limits fixed in the Regulations and
therefore it would neither apply to the priority period, since the priority
period is set by Article 4C of the Paris Convention (for restoration of the
right of priority refer to paragraphs 5.062 to 5.068), nor to the time limit
for entering the national phase in accordance with Articles 22 and 39 (refer
to paragraphs 5.005 and 5.006). Any extension or additional period of
extension need not be taken into account by any designated or elected Office
if, at the time the information relating to the extension is published,
national processing before that Office has already started.

FILING OF LETTERS, DOCUMENTS AND PAPERS

11.066. What are the rules concerning the filing of letters, documents and
papers?

[Rule 12.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r12.html) [Rule
55.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r55.html) [Rule
92](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r92.html),  [Section
104](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s104.html)  
There are detailed provisions in Rule 92 concerning letters, documents or
papers submitted by the applicant in the course of the international
procedure: letters must be signed; any other paper submitted must be
accompanied by a letter; letters and documents from the applicant to the
receiving Office, the International Searching Authority, the Authority
specified for supplementary search, and the International Preliminary
Examining Authority must generally be in the language of the international
application or, where a translation of the international application has been
transmitted or furnished for the purposes of the international search,
supplementary international search, international publication or international
preliminary examination (refer to paragraphs 5.013, 6.020, 8.012, 9.018 and
10.011), in the language of that translation. Any communication from the
applicant to the International Bureau must be in English or French and may be
in the language of publication of the international application if it is
submitted via ePCT. As to the language of any amendments to the claims under
Article 19 (and their accompanying statement), refer to paragraphs 9.004 and
9.007. As to the language of the demand and of any amendments under Article
34, refer to paragraphs 10.013 and 10.071.

11.067. Can documents be filed by telegraph, teleprinter, facsimile machine,
etc?

[Rule 92.4](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r92.html)  
Rule 92.4 governs the use of telegraph, teleprinter, facsimile machine and
other like means of communication resulting in the filing of a printed or
written document. These means of communication may only be used where the
national Office or intergovernmental organization concerned is prepared to
receive correspondence by these means. Some Offices and organizations require,
for certain or all kinds of documents, that a communication by such admitted
means of communication must, in any event, be confirmed by the applicant
within 14 days; otherwise the communication may be considered not to have been
made. However, failure to comply with such a requirement may be waived in some
cases. Even where there is no standing requirement for originals to be
furnished, an Office or organization may require the originals in any
particular case. Further details on these requirements are set out in Rule
92.4, and information as to the practice and requirements applied in
particular Offices and organizations is given in Annexes B.

11.068

Applicants should, before sending a document by a means of telecommunication,
check in Annexes B to ascertain the applicable requirements. Where the papers
to be submitted are documents making up the international application or
replacement sheets containing amendments or corrections to the international
application, the original should in any event be mailed as a matter of course
on the same or the following day.

11.069

[Rule 92.4(d)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r92.html)  
Where an original is sent to an Office or organization of a document
previously transmitted to that Office or organization by a means of
telecommunication, the original must be accompanied by a letter identifying
the date and means of the earlier transmission.

11.070

If part or all of a document received by such means of transmission is
illegible, or if part of the document is not received, the document is treated
as not having been received to the extent that it is illegible or that the
attempted transmission failed, and the Office or organization promptly
notifies the applicant accordingly.

11.071. May a file reference be used in correspondence?

[Section 109](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s109.html)  
The applicant or the appointed agent may mark a file reference in the box
provided for that purpose on the first sheet of the request form (refer to
paragraph 5.017), on each page of the other elements of the international
application (refer to paragraphs 5.105 and 5.124), on the first sheet of the
supplementary search request form (refer to paragraph 8.013), on the first
sheet of the demand form (refer to paragraph 10.015), and in any other
correspondence relating to the international application. The file reference
may be composed either of letters of the Latin alphabet or Arabic numerals, or
both. The hyphen character (“-“) may be used as a separator between
alphanumeric characters. It may not exceed 25 characters. The receiving
Office, the International Bureau, the International Searching Authority, the
Authority specified for supplementary search and the International Preliminary
Examining Authority will use the file reference in correspondence with the
applicant.

CONFIDENTIALITY OF INTERNATIONAL APPLICATIONS

11.072. To what extent are international applications treated as confidential?

[Article 30](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a30.html),  [Article
38](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a38.html),  [Rule
94.1(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r94.html) [Rule 94.1
_bis_(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r94.html) [Rule 94.1
_ter_(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r94.html)  
An international application is confidential in relation to third parties
until the international publication date, with only limited and specified
exceptions (refer to Article 30). The International Bureau, the receiving
Office and the International Searching Authority will at any time, at the
request of the applicant or any person authorized by the applicant, furnish
copies of any document contained in its file, subject to reimbursement of the
cost of the service. An order for access made by a court with competent
jurisdiction would be taken by the International Bureau as substituting for
the applicant's authorization. (For access to the file of the International
Preliminary Examining Authority refer to paragraph 11.074).

11.073

[Rule 17.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r17.html) [Rule
48](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r48.html),  [Rule
94.1(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r94.html)  
After international publication, the international application itself is
publicly available, as are any published amendments under Article 19 (refer to
Rule 48.2(f)), the international search report (refer to Article 21(3) and
Rule 48.2(a)(v)) (these elements are included in the published international
application) and copies of priority documents (noting the exceptions mentioned
in paragraph 9.023; refer to Rule 17.2). In respect of international
applications filed on or after 1 July 1998, the International Bureau will,
after international publication, furnish copies of any document contained in
its file at the request of any person and upon reimbursement of the cost of
the service, but subject to the restrictions imposed by Article 38 in respect
of documents relating to the international preliminary examination. However,
the International Bureau will not provide access to any document contained in
its file which has been omitted from international publication (refer to
paragraph 9.016A) or public file access (refer to paragraph 11.073A), nor will
it give access to any document which was solely prepared for internal use by
the International Bureau.

[Rule 94.1 _bis_(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r94.html) [Rule
94.1 _ter_(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r94.html)  
After international publication, the receiving Office and the International
Searching Authority may also furnish copies of any document contained in its
file at the request of any person and upon reimbursement of the cost of the
service except for documents which have been omitted from international
publication (refer to paragraph 9.016A) or public file access (refer to
paragraph 11.073A).

11.073A. Can the applicant request that the International Bureau restrict
access to certain information contained in its file?

[Rule 94.1(e)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r94.html)  
The applicant can make a reasoned request to the International Bureau to omit
certain information from public file access. (For the manner in which such a
request should be presented, refer to paragraph 9.016A). A request to omit
information from public file access may be submitted at any time.

Where the International Bureau has omitted information from public access, and
that information is also contained in the file of the international
application held by the receiving Office, the International Searching
Authority, the Authority specified for supplementary search or the
International Preliminary Examining Authority, the International Bureau will
also promptly notify that Office or Authority accordingly, so that they will
not provide access to such information either.

11.074. To what extent is the international preliminary examination
confidential?

[Article 36(3)(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a36.html),
[Article 38](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a38.html),  [Rule
71.1(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r71.html) [Rule
94.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r94.html) [Rule
94.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r94.html) [Rule
94.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r94.html) [Section
420](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s420.html)  
Where the applicant requests international preliminary examination, Article 38
expressly provides that the International Bureau and the International
Preliminary Examining Authority may not allow unauthorized access to the file
of the international preliminary examination. Access by third parties to
papers relating to the international preliminary examination held in the files
of the International Bureau and the International Preliminary Examining
Authority thus will be permitted only if that is requested or authorized by
the applicant. However, once the international preliminary report on
patentability (Chapter II of the PCT) and related documents have been
communicated to each elected Office by the International Bureau, third parties
may gain access to these documents. Such access may be allowed only to the
same extent as provided by the national law for access to the file of a
national application. Furthermore, the International Bureau will, if so
requested by an elected Office (details of such requests are published in the
Official Notices (PCT Gazette), also refer to
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/access_iper.html>), furnish copies of the
international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT) and
related documents received from the International Preliminary Examining
Authority under Rule 71.1(b) (refer to paragraph 10.079A) on behalf of an
elected Office that has made such a request. However, access shall not be
provided to third parties as to the information which has been omitted from
international publication or public access (refer to paragraphs 9.016A and
11.073A). It should be noted that the furnishing of copies of documents may be
subject to a fee payable to that Office.

REFERENCES TO DEPOSITED BIOLOGICAL MATERIAL

11.075. When must an international application include a reference to
biological material and/or to its deposit with a depositary institution?

[Rule 13 _bis_.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13bis.html) [Rule
48.2(a)(viii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r48.html)  
The PCT does not require the inclusion of such a reference in an international
application; it merely prescribes the contents of any reference to deposited
biological material (defined as particulars given with respect to the deposit
of biological material or to the biological material so deposited) which is
included in an international application, and when such a reference must be
furnished. It follows that the applicant will refer to a need to make such a
reference only when it is required for the purpose of disclosing the invention
claimed in the international application in a manner sufficient for the
invention to be carried out by a person skilled in the art - that is, when the
law of at least one of the designated States provides for the making, for this
purpose, of a reference to deposited biological material if the invention
involves the use of biological material that is not available to the public.
Annex L lists those national (or regional) Offices of, or acting for, the
Contracting States whose national law provides for the making of a reference
to deposited biological material for the purposes of patent procedure; those
national (or regional) Offices whose laws do not provide for such references
are indicated in Annexes B (in some cases together with information given by
those Offices on the possibility of referring in the international application
to deposits of biological material even though the applicable national law
does not provide specially for it). Where any indications are furnished
separately from the description and are received by the International Bureau
before the completion of technical preparations for international publication,
the date of receipt by the International Bureau and the indication will be
included in the published international application.

11.076. What effect does the PCT give to such a reference?

[Rule 13 _bis_.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13bis.html)  
A reference to deposited biological material made in accordance with the
requirements of the PCT must be regarded by each of the designated Offices as
satisfying the requirements of the national law applicable in that Office with
regard to the contents of such references and the time for furnishing them.

11.077. May the reference be made for the purposes of only some of the
designated States?

[Rule 13 _bis_.5](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13bis.html)  
A reference may be made for the purposes of all designated States or for one
or only some of the designated States. A reference is considered to be made
for the purpose of all designated States unless it is expressly made for
certain designated States only. References to different deposits may be made
for the purposes of different designated States.

11.078. What are the indications which must be given in the reference with
regard to the deposit of biological material?

[Rule 13 _bis_.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13bis.html) [Rule
12.1 _ter_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r12.html)  
There are two kinds of indication which may have to be given, namely:

(i) indications specified in the PCT Regulations themselves; and

(ii) additional indications which have been notified by the national (or
regional) Office of (or acting for) a State designated in the international
application and which have been published in the _Official Notices (PCT
Gazette)_ ; these additional indications may relate not only to the deposit of
the biological material but also to the biological material itself (refer to
paragraph 11.079).

The indications in the first category are:

(i) the name and address of the depositary institution with which the deposit
was made;

(ii) the date of the deposit with that institution; and

(iii) the accession number given to the deposit by that institution.

Annex L sets out, for each national (or regional) Office, the additional
indications (if any) in the second category which are required to be given.
These indications must be furnished both in the language in which the
international application is filed and, where a translation of the
international application is required under Rule 12.3(a) or 12.4(a), in the
language of that translation.

11.079. What are the indications concerning biological material itself which
must be given in the reference?

[Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(iv),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13bis.html)
[Rule 13 _bis_.7(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13bis.html)  
The national laws of some of the national (or regional) Offices require that,
besides indications concerning the deposit of biological material, an
indication be given concerning the biological material itself, such as, for
example, a short description of its characteristics, at least to the extent
that this information is available to the applicant. These requirements must
be met in the case of international applications for which any such Office is
a designated Office, provided that the requirements have been notified to the
International Bureau and published in the _Official Notices (PCT Gazette)_.
Annex L indicates, for each of the national (or regional) Offices, the
requirements (if any) of this kind which have been so notified and published.

11.080. At what time must the reference (with the indications which must be
contained therein) be made?

[Rule 13 _bis_.4,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13bis.html) [Rule
13 _bis_.7(a)(ii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13bis.html)  
If any indication is not included in a reference to deposited biological
material contained in the international application as filed, it may be
furnished to the International Bureau within 16 months from the priority date
unless the International Bureau has been notified (and, at least two months
prior to the filing of the international application, has published in the
_Official Notices (PCT Gazette)_) that the national law applicable by a
designated Office requires in relation to national applications that the
indication be furnished earlier. If any of the indications are furnished to
the International Bureau after the expiration of 16 months from the priority
date but before the technical preparations for international publication have
been completed, those indications will be considered by any designated Office
to have been furnished on the last day of the 16-month time limit. If the
applicant makes a request for early publication (refer to paragraph 9.013),
all indications should be furnished by the time the request is made, since any
designated Office may regard any indication not furnished when the request is
made as not having been furnished in time. Annex L specifies, for each
national (or regional) Office whose national law requires a reference to
deposited biological material to be furnished earlier than 16 months after the
priority date, the applicable time limit(s) for furnishing such indications.

11.081. What is the consequence of failure to furnish an indication on time?

[Rule 13 _bis_.3(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13bis.html)
[Rule 13 _bis_.4,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13bis.html) [Rule
48.2(a)(viii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r48.html)  
No check is made in the international phase to determine whether a reference
has been furnished within the prescribed time limit. However, where the
indications were received after the technical preparations for international
publication have been completed, the International Bureau notifies the
designated Offices of the date(s) on which indications not included in the
international application as filed were furnished to it. Failure to include a
reference to deposited biological material (or any indication required in such
a reference) in the international application as filed, or failure to furnish
it (or the indication) within the prescribed time limit, has no consequence if
the national law does not require the reference (or indication) to be
furnished in a national application. Where there is a consequence, it is the
same as that which applies under the national law.

11.082. Where should the reference be made?

[Section 209](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s209.html)  
To the extent that indications relating to the deposit of biological material
are not given in the description, they may be furnished on a separate sheet,
for which purpose Form PCT/RO/134 (refer to WIPO website at:
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/forms/>) should preferably be used. That separate
sheet may be filed after the international application is filed. If the sheet
is submitted when the international application is filed, a reference to it
should be made in the check list (Box No. IX) contained on the last sheet of
the request form (refer to website address above). Certain designated Offices
require that the indications relating to the deposit of biological material
must be included in the description at the time of filing (refer to Annex L)
so the sheet, if submitted when the international application is filed, may
need to be included as one of the sheets of the description; otherwise the
indications given in it will not be taken into account by those Offices in the
national phase. If the sheet is furnished to the International Bureau later
(refer to paragraph 11.080), it must be enclosed with a letter. Form
PCT/RO/134 may also be prepared using ePCT.

11.083. How does the applicant decide on the depositary institution with which
to deposit the biological material?

[Rule 13 _bis_.7(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13bis.html)  
Each national (or regional) Office whose national law provides for deposits of
biological material for the purposes of patent procedure notifies the
International Bureau of the depositary institutions with which the national
law permits such deposits to be made. Information on the institutions notified
by each of those Offices is published by the International Bureau in the
_Official Notices (PCT Gazette)_. Annex L indicates the institutions with
which deposits may be made.

11.084

[Rule 13 _bis_.5(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13bis.html)  
A reference to a deposit cannot be disregarded by a designated Office for
reasons pertaining to the institution with which the biological material was
deposited if the deposit referred to is one made with a depositary institution
notified by that Office. Thus, by consulting the Official Notices (PCT
Gazette) (or Annex L), the applicant can be sure that the biological material
has been deposited with an institution which will be accepted by the
designated Office.

11.085. Does a reference in an international application to the deposit of
biological material involve the possibility of a sample being obtained by the
International Searching Authority or the International Preliminary Examining
Authority?

[Rule 13 _bis_.6](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13bis.html)  
International Searching Authorities and International Preliminary Examining
Authorities may not require the furnishing of a sample of deposited biological
material for the purposes of international search or international preliminary
examination, respectively.

11.086. What possibility is there, when a reference is made in an
international application to the deposit of biological material, of third
persons obtaining a sample?

[Rule 13 _bis_.6](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13bis.html)  
The furnishing of samples is governed by the national laws applicable in the
designated Offices. Rule 13 _bis_.6, however, provides for the delaying of any
furnishing of samples under the national law applicable in each of the
designated (or elected) Offices until the start of the national phase, subject
to the ending of this delaying effect brought about by the occurrence of
either of the following two events:

(i) the applicant has, after international publication of the international
application, taken the steps necessary to enter the national phase before the
designated Office (refer to National Phase, paragraph
[4.001](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctnp&doc-
lang=en&doc-type=guide#_4.001));

(ii) international publication of the international application has been
effected, and that publication has the same effects, under the national law
applicable in the designated Office, as the compulsory national publication of
an unexamined national application (in other words, the international
application has qualified for the grant of provisional protection); for the
Contracting States whose national laws provide for provisional protection, and
the conditions which have to be met for an international application to
qualify for that protection, refer to Annexes B.

11.087

With respect to certain designated Offices (for instance, the European Patent
Office), the applicant may take advantage of the procedure whereby, until the
occurrence of a certain event, the biological material may be made available
only by the issue of a sample to an expert nominated by the requester. For
details, refer to Annex L.

REQUIREMENTS FOR SEQUENCE LISTINGS

11.088. What special requirements apply to nucleotide and/or amino acid
sequences disclosed in international applications?

[Rule 5.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r5.html) [Rule 13
_ter_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13ter.html),  [Section
208](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s208.html),  [Annex C of the
Administrative
Instructions](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/annex_c.html)  
Refer to paragraphs 5.099 to 5.104, 7.005 to 7.012, and 10.063. Refer to
National Phase, paragraph [6.033](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-
doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctnp&doc-lang=en&doc-type=guide#_6.033) and National
Chapters in relation to the national phase.

EXTENSION OF INTERNATIONAL APPLICATIONS TO SUCCESSOR STATES OF FORMER
CONTRACTING STATES

11.089. What is a successor State?

[Rule 32.1(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r32.html)  
A successor State is a State whose territory was, before its independence,
part of the territory of a PCT Contracting State that subsequently ceased to
exist (the predecessor State), and which (successor State) has deposited with
the Director General of WIPO a declaration indicating that the PCT continues
to be applicable in that State (“declaration of continuation”). As from the
date of the deposit of such a declaration, the successor State may be
designated in international applications. Moreover, the effects of
international applications filed during a certain period are extended to the
successor State.

11.090. Which are the international applications whose effects are extended to
a successor State?

[Rule 32.1(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r32.html)  
Rule 32 provides that the effects of any international application filed
during a certain period are extended to a successor State, irrespective of
which States have been designated in the international application. This
period, for those successor States whose date of independence is later than
the date of the day following the last day of the existence of the predecessor
State, begins on the day following the last day of the existence of the
predecessor State and ends two months after the date on which the Director
General notifies the Governments of the States party to the Paris Convention
for the Protection of Industrial Property of the successor State’s declaration
of continuation. For those States whose date of independence is earlier than
the date of the day following the last day of the existence of the predecessor
State, the successor State may, in conjunction with its declaration of
continuation, declare that the period referred to above starts on the date of
its independence.

11.091. How will an applicant know that the effects of his/her international
application have been extended to a successor State?

[Rule 32.1(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r32.html)  
Information on any international application whose filing date falls within
the applicable period (refer to paragraph 11.090) and whose effect is extended
to the successor State shall be published by the International Bureau in the
_Official Notices (PCT Gazette)_.

11.092. What is the effect of an extension?

[Rule 32.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r32.html)  
A successor State is considered as having been designated in the international
application on the international filing date. The applicable time limits under
Article 22 or 39(1) in relation to that State shall be extended until the
expiration of at least six months from the date of the publication of the
information under Rule 32.1(c) (refer to paragraph 11.091). A successor State
may fix time limits which expire later than the time limits given in the
previous sentence of this paragraph and, if it does so, the International
Bureau will publish this information in the _Official Notices (PCT Gazette)_.

11.093

The procedure for extension of the effects of international applications to
certain successor States (as explained above) should not be confused with the
extension of European patents to States which are bound by the PCT and which
have Extension Agreements with the European Patent Organisation (refer to
paragraph 5.054 and Annex B (EP)).

11.094. – 11.101. [Deleted]

LICENSING INDICATIONS

11.102. How can applicants indicate their interest in licensing the
invention(s) contained in their international application?

Applicants can file a request to that effect either (and preferably) by
completing Form PCT/IB/382 “ _Request for indication of availability for
licensing purposes_ ” available at:
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/docs/forms/ib/editable/ed-ib382.pdf> or by way of
a letter addressed to the International Bureau. Details of the licensing terms
may also be included in the form or letter. All such requests should be sent
directly to the International Bureau, which does not charge a fee for this
service.

11.103. When should a request for indication of availability for licensing
purposes be filed?

Requests for indication of availability for licensing purposes can be
submitted at any time until the expiration of 30 months from the priority
date.

11.104. Is it possible to file multiple licensing requests or modify those
already filed?

Where applicants file multiple requests or want to modify those already filed,
they must ensure their latest request is always a self-contained document,
comprising complete information about any requests or modifications.

11.105. In which language can the request for indication of availability for
licensing purposes be filed?

Form PCT/IB/382 will shortly be available in all ten publication languages
(Arabic, Chinese, English, French, German, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese,
Russian and Spanish) and the International Bureau is ready to accept the
request for indication of availability for licensing purposes by way of a
letter in any of those languages.

11.106. How are licensing indications made available?

The processing of the licensing request by the International Bureau generates
a statement in the bibliographic data indicating the applicant’s interest in
concluding licensing agreements. In addition, this is linked to the filed
request for indication of availability for licensing purposes (either Form
PCT/IB/382 or the letter containing the licensing indications) which is
available, under the “Documents” tab, in PATENTSCOPE. Applicants are reminded
that if they want to publish licensing indications in relation to their
international application at a very early stage, they should also consider
filing a request for early international publication as provided under Article
21(2)(b).

11.107. Can the licensing indications be removed?

Applicants can request that the International Bureau remove the licensing
indications from the “PCT Bibliographic Data” tab in PATENTSCOPE at any time
during the international or national phase. Once removed, the licensing
request and the related correspondence remain part of the file history
available under the related “Documents” tab in PATENTSCOPE.

11.108. How can you search for international applications for which licensing
indications are available?

In addition to being published with the international application to which it
relates, the licensing indications are also a search criterion within
PATENTSCOPE Search Service <https://www.wipo.int/patentscope/en/> allowing
third parties to identify those applicants who have expressed their interest
in licensing the invention(s) contained in their international application.
The search criterion can also be used in combination/multi-field searches and
RSS feeds.

THIRD PARTY OBSERVATIONS

11.109. What is the third party observation system?

[Section 801(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s801.html),  [Section
804(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s804.html)  
This system allows third parties to make observations through ePCT (signing in
without strong authentication at <https://pct.wipo.int/ePCT>) referring to
prior art which they believe to be relevant to the question of whether the
invention claimed in the international application is novel and/or involves an
inventive step. There is no fee for this service. For a comprehensive user
guide, refer to ePCT Third Party Observations
(<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/epct/pdf/epct_observations.pdf>)

11.110. What is the time limit for submitting observations?

[Section 802(a)(ii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s802.html),
[Section 804(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s804.html)  
Third party observations may be submitted at any time after the date of
publication of the international application and before the expiration of 28
months from the priority date, provided that the application is not withdrawn
or considered withdrawn.

11.111. How should observations be submitted by third parties?

[Section 802(a)(i)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s802.html)  
All observations must be submitted through ePCT signing in without strong
authentication, either directly or through a link on the bibliographical data
tab of the published international application. The use of the system requires
a WIPO account (refer to
<https://pct.wipo.int/wipoaccounts/ePCT/public/register.jsf>). Each
observation must include at least one citation that refers to a document
published before the international filing date, or a patent document having a
priority date before the international filing date, together with a brief
explanation of how each document is considered to be relevant to the questions
of novelty and/or inventive step of the claimed invention. Observations should
preferably be accompanied by a copy of each cited document.

11.112. Can third parties remain anonymous?

[Section 801(b)(i)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s801.html)  
Yes, when a third party observation is submitted, the person making the
observation may indicate that they wish to remain anonymous.

11.113. In what languages should observations be submitted?

[Section 802(a)(iii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s802.html),
[Section 804(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s804.html)  
Observations should be submitted in a language of publication (refer to
paragraph 5.013), with the exception that copies of prior art documents may be
in any language.

11.114. Can the applicant comment on third party observations?

[Section 804(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s804.html)  
The applicant will be notified about the first published observation, and all
subsequent observations will be promptly notified after the expiration of 28
months from the priority date. The applicant may comment on third party
observations until the expiration of 30 months from the priority date. These
comments must be submitted through ePCT (signing in with strong
authentication) or by sending a letter to the International Bureau. The
applicant’s comments should be submitted in English, French or the language of
publication of the international application. The comments will be made
publicly available on PATENTSCOPE.

11.115. What restrictions exist concerning third party observations?

[Section 801(b)(iii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s801.html),
[Section 801(b)(iv)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s801.html)  
A third party may only submit a single observation for any international
application, and once submitted, it cannot be retracted or modified. There is
also an upper limit of ten observations per international application.

11.116. How are observations processed?

[Section 802(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s802.html),  [Section
803(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s803.html),  [Section
804(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s804.html)  
Each observation will be examined by the International Bureau to determine if
it is an observation on the questions of novelty and/or inventive step. It
will then be made publicly available on PATENTSCOPE. It should be noted that
only the observations and not the uploaded documents are made publicly
available. Uploaded documents are only made available to the applicant, the
competent International Authorities and designated Offices. If the observation
is rejected by the International Bureau, the third party will be notified and
provided with a reason.

11.117. Will third party observations be taken into account by the
International Authorities and designated Offices?

[Section 805](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/s805.html)  
Observations will be transmitted to any competent International Searching
Authority, and/or International Preliminary Examining Authority involved in
the processing of the application during the international phase, if the
International Bureau has not yet received the international search report,
supplementary international search report or international preliminary report
on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT) respectively. To the extent that the
observations are received by those Authorities in time to be taken into
account in drawing up their respective reports, any prior art referred to in
the observations should be considered, provided that either a copy of the
prior art is included, or it is otherwise immediately available to the
examiner. The observations will also be transmitted to the designated Offices
promptly after the expiration of 30 months from the priority date. The
designated Offices are, however, not obliged to take them into account during
national processing.

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Change(s) as of 15 September 2023 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference.
Mouse hover the text to consult previous value)

  
CHAPTER 1: THIS GUIDE AND ITS ANNEXES

1.001

This part of the _PCT Applicant’s Guide_ (the Guide) consists of general
information on the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) intended for those
interested in filing international patent applications, in particular,
information on the “international phase” of the PCT procedure. This is
supplemented by a number of Annexes Containing more detailed information;
whenever the word “Annex” followed by a capital letter is used in the Guide,
it is a reference to an Annex. A second part follows and contains general
information on the “national phase” of the PCT procedure, namely the procedure
before the designated (or elected) Offices. A designated (or elected) Office
is the national or regional Patent Office of or acting for a State party to
the PCT (a “Contracting State”) that is designated (or elected) in an
international application. This National Phase also indicates the requirements
to be complied with before each of these Offices in their respective National
Chapters. Since 2006, the Guide is only available via the Internet at
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/guide/index.html>. An e-mail update service is
also available which provides users of the Guide with a weekly notice
informing them which Guide information has been updated that week.

  

1.005. Where can I find a copy of the PCT Regulations and other PCT
publications?

Up-to-date versions of the PCT Treaty and Regulations may be browsed or
downloaded from the PCT Resources page at:
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/docs/official-notices/officialnotices.pdf>. These
texts are also available in Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Italian,
Japanese, Portuguese, Russian and Spanish.

Printed brochures of the PCT and Regulations, in many of the above languages,
may be ordered as WIPO publication number 274 from the International Bureau at
the address given in Annex B (IB), or by e-mail from
publications.mail@wipo.int. A copy may also be downloaded, free of charge,
from the following website: <https://www.wipo.int/publications/en/index.html>.
Publication orders should also indicate the language of the required
publication. PCT users may consult published international applications on
PATENTSCOPE at: <https://www.wipo.int/patentscope/en/>. It is also recommended
that they consult the _Official Notices (PCT Gazette)_ which contain notices
and information of a general character. Accession of new Contracting States,
changes in fees and other information are promptly published therein. A
complete collection of _Official Notices (PCT Gazette)_ from 1998 to the
present is available in electronic form on the WIPO website at:
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/docs/official_notices/officialnotices.pdf>.

  

1.006

Up-to-date news about the PCT is available from the PCT Newsletter, a monthly
publication. In addition to matters such as adherence of further States to the
PCT and changes in requirements of Offices and Authorities, the PCT Newsletter
also includes the current list of PCT Contracting States, reports of
international meetings concerning the PCT, amendments to the PCT Regulations,
changes to PCT forms, statistics relating to the filing of international
applications, practical advice for PCT users, information about forthcoming
PCT seminars and tables of PCT fees. The PCT Newsletter is available on the
WIPO website at: <https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/newslett/>. This web page also
contains a fully searchable collection of all practical advice published since
1994, plus back issues of the PCT Newsletter which are also fully searchable
as from the January 1994 issue onwards. In addition to English, excerpts from
the PCT Newsletter are also available in Chinese
(<https://www.wipo.int/pct/zh/newslett/index.html>), Japanese
(<https://www.wipo.int/pct/ja/newslett/index.html>) and Korean
(<https://www.wipo.int/pct/ko/newslett/index.html>).

  

  
CHAPTER 3: THE INTERNATIONAL PHASE AND THE NATIONAL PHASE OF THE PCT PROCEDURE

3.002

The international phase, which is the subject of this part of the Guide,
consists of five stages. The first three occur automatically for all
international applications and the last two are optional. The first three
steps consist of the filing of the international application by the applicant
and its processing by the “receiving Office” (refer to Annex C), the
establishment of the international search report and written opinion by one of
the “International Searching Authorities” (refer to Annex D), and the
publication of the international application together with the international
search report by the International Bureau of WIPO (hereinafter referred to as
“the International Bureau”). The fourth step includes the establishment of a
supplementary international search which may be carried out by one or more of
the International Searching Authorities (other than the one that carried out
the main international search) resulting in the establishment of a
supplementary international search report (refer to Annex SISA). Hereinafter,
reference to the “(main) international search” alone does not include
reference to the “supplementary international search”, and reference to
“international search report” alone does not include reference to
“supplementary international search report”, except where otherwise indicated.
The third step includes communication of the published international
application and the international search report and, where applicable, the
supplementary international search report(s), as well as the international
preliminary report on patentability (Chapter I of the PCT), by the
International Bureau to the national (or regional) Offices from which the
applicant wishes to be granted a patent on the basis of the international
application (the so-called “designated Offices”). The communication occurs
upon request by the designated Office to the International Bureau.

  

3.003

The optional fifth step involves what is known as international preliminary
examination (under Chapter II of the PCT), and is concluded with the
establishment of the international preliminary report on patentability
(Chapter II of the PCT) by one of the “International Preliminary Examining
Authorities” (refer to Annex E). The international preliminary report on
patentability (Chapter II of the PCT) analyzes aspects of the general
patentability of the invention. Together with the published international
application, the international search report and any supplementary
international search report, the international preliminary report on
patentability (Chapter II of the PCT) is communicated to the national (or
regional) Offices from which the applicant wishes to be granted a patent on
the basis of the international application (the so-called “elected Offices”).
The communication occurs upon request by the elected Office to the
International Bureau. International preliminary examination is available
subject to certain conditions and qualifications being met; those are
discussed in detail in paragraph 10.004.

  

3.004. What is the national phase of the PCT?

On completion of the international phase, further action is required before
and in each of the national (or regional) Offices from which the applicant
wishes to be granted a patent on the basis of the international application.
In particular, the applicant has to pay to those Offices the required national
(or regional) fees, furnish them with any translations that are required and
appoint a representative (patent agent) where required. There are time limits
by which those steps must be taken if the application is to proceed in the
national phase (refer to paragraphs 4.014 to 4.016, 5.005 and 5.006 below). If
the steps are not taken within the applicable time limit, the effect of the
international application may cease in any State where the time limit has not
been met. The national (or regional) Offices then examine the application and
grant or refuse the national (or regional) patent on the basis of their
national laws. (In the PCT and in this Guide, any reference to “national law”
is also a reference to a regional treaty such as the ARIPO Harare Protocol,
the Eurasian Patent Convention, the European Patent Convention and the OAPI
Agreement – refer to paragraph 2.002.) These procedures before the national
(or regional) Offices constitute what is usually referred to as the “national
phase” of the PCT procedure and are considered in that part of this Guide.

  

  
CHAPTER 4: USEFULNESS OF THE PCT FOR APPLICANTS

4.003

The saving arises primarily from the fact that, under the PCT, the applicant
files one application – the international application – in one place, in one
language and pays one initial set of fees, and that this international
application has the effect of a national or regional application, which,
without the PCT, the applicant would have to file separately for each country
or region.

  

4.004. What is an international search report and a written opinion?

The help to the applicant in the national phase prosecution of the application
follows from the “advice” provided in the international search report, a
report which is established for each international application, according to
high, internationally regulated standards, by one of the Patent Offices that
are highly experienced in examining patent applications and that have been
specially appointed to carry out international searches. Those Offices are
listed in Annex D (“International Searching Authorities”). Detailed advice may
also be obtained from the written opinion established by the International
Searching Authority which gives a preliminary non-binding opinion on whether
the claimed invention appears to be novel, to involve inventive step and to be
industrially applicable.

  

4.005. What is a supplementary international search?

If the applicant so requests (Form PCT/IB/375), a supplementary international
search may be carried out, by one or more of the participating International
Searching Authorities (refer to Annex SISA) other than the one which carried
out the main international search. The supplementary international search
report(s) (Form PCT/SISA/501), thus obtained will provide the applicant with a
more comprehensive overview of the relevant prior art and enable him/her to
better assess the chances of obtaining patent protection for his/her invention
(refer to Chapter 8).

  

4.013. What are the advantages of the PCT system in comparison to the Paris
route?

Before the applicant goes to the effort and expense of having translations
prepared, paying the national or regional fees and appointing agents in the
various countries, his/her views are able to mature to a greater extent than
would be possible without the PCT, not only because the applicant has more
time, but also because the international search report, the written opinion of
the International Searching Authority, the supplementary international search
report(s), and the international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter
II of the PCT) constitute a solid basis on which he/she can judge the chances
of obtaining protection. Furthermore, any patents subsequently granted by the
designated or elected Offices can be relied on by the applicant to a greater
extent than would have been the case without the benefit of the international
search report, the written opinion of the International Searching Authority,
the supplementary international search report(s), and the international
preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT). Moreover, because
of the longer time the applicant has for making decisions, he/she is better
placed to assess the technical value and economic interest of patent
protection and to select the particular countries in which he/she desires to
continue seeking protection for the invention. As a result, substantial
savings can be made in both translation and filing costs for those countries
which are no longer of interest to the applicant.

  

4.015

Fees payable to national or regional Patent Offices similarly become due later
than they do without the PCT, and only in the case where the applicant decides
to go ahead with the processing of the international application at the
national or regional Patent Office. Generally, such national or regional fees
must be paid within the same time limit as referred to in paragraph 4.016.

  

4.017

An international search report (and any supplementary international search
report) which is favorable from the applicant’s viewpoint strengthens his/her
position vis-à-vis the various national or regional Patent Offices, and
his/her arguments for the grant of a patent by those Offices are likely to be
more convincing.

  

4.019

If the international search report and the written opinion of the
International Searching Authority are partly favorable and partly unfavorable,
the applicant can modify the claims so as to maintain only those which are
likely to result in the grant of a patent. If the international search report
and the written opinion are unfavorable, and the applicant consequently
decides not to proceed any further, he/she saves the cost of having the
application processed in the various countries. The same applies to
supplementary international search report(s).

  

4.022. Can I obtain a regional patent via the PCT ?

Important additional advantages for applicants wishing to protect their
inventions in countries party both to any of the various regional patent
treaties (refer to paragraph 2.002) and to the PCT result from combined use of
the PCT system and those regional systems. Not only is the PCT fully
compatible with the regional patent systems, but there are possibilities for
advantageous combined use of both kinds of systems by applicants, irrespective
of the country in which they file. The following paragraphs deal with the
combined use of the PCT with the regional patent systems under which patents
may be obtained via the PCT, namely, the ARIPO Harare Protocol, the Eurasian
Patent Convention, the European Patent Convention and the OAPI Agreement, via
the so-called “ARIPO-PCT route,” “Eurasian-PCT route,” “Euro-PCT route” and
“OAPI-PCT route.” In the case of the European Patent Convention, it is also
possible to obtain patents through combined use of that Convention and the PCT
in the States to which a European patent may be extended or where it may be
validated – refer to paragraph 4.026.

  

4.023

An applicant filing a PCT application and wishing to obtain protection in
countries party to any of those regional patent treaties obtains, from the PCT
application filed, for example, with the Japan Patent Office (JPO) or with the
United States Patent and Trademark Office, the effect of a simultaneous filing
with each regional Office concerned for the purposes of obtaining a regional
patent. In such a case, before taking any action outside his/her home country,
the applicant can safely wait until the results of the PCT search procedure
(and, optionally, of the international preliminary examination) are known and
also make full use of the extended period (refer to paragraph 5.005) by the
end of which a translation of the PCT application, if it was not filed in one
of the official languages of the regional Office (refer to the various
National Chapters), must be submitted and, where required, an agent appointed
for the procedure before that Office.

  

4.024

An applicant may file a PCT application with his/her own national Office as
receiving Office, even at the very end of the priority year, and still obtain
an immediate automatic filing effect with each of the regional Offices
concerned. A further advantage is that, at the time of filing the PCT
application, the applicant pays only one initial set of fees. The four
regional designations which are presently possible cover more than 50 PCT
Contracting States. If, on the other hand, the applicant chooses to file
separate regional patent applications on the basis of a first application
filed with his/her own national Office, he/she will, by the end of the
priority year, have to comply with all the requirements of each of the
regional treaties as to formalities, fees and appointment of agents.

  

4.025. I am a national of a State party to one of the regional patent
treaties. May I file an international application to obtain both regional and
national protection?

Similar advantages are offered by use of the ARIPO-PCT, Eurasian-PCT, Euro-PCT
and OAPI-PCT routes in the reverse direction. In other words, a national of a
State party to one of the regional patent treaties or of one of the States to
which a European patent may be extended (refer to paragraph 4.026) may,
instead of filing separate patent applications with a regional Office and, for
instance, the Japan Patent Office (JPO) and the United States Patent and
Trademark Office, choose to file, on the basis of a national application or as
a first application, an international application under the PCT containing the
designation of all PCT Contracting States for the purposes of obtaining, where
applicable, both regional and national patents.

  

4.026. Can I validate or extend a European patent via the PCT?

A further advantage of the Euro-PCT route is the possibility of making use,
where available, of the procedure for extension or validation of European
patents. Agreements on extending or validating the protection conferred by
European patents have been concluded between the European Patent Organisation
and some States which are not party to the European Patent Convention.
Provided that the international application contains a designation for a
national patent of the State concerned and also a designation for a European
patent the applicant may make use of the Euro-PCT route with a view to
extending to or validating in that State a European patent subsequently
granted on the basis of the international application (refer to paragraph
5.054 and Annex B (EP), as well as National Chapter Summary (EP)).

  

  
CHAPTER 5: FILING AN INTERNATIONAL APPLICATION

5.015. What is the form of the request?

Where the international application is filed on paper, the request must be
made on a printed form (Form PCT/RO/101) to be filled in with the required
indications or be presented as a computer print-out complying with the
Administrative Instructions. A filled-in sample and a blank copy of the Form
PCT/RO/101 are available from the Internet website address indicated below.
Any prospective applicant may also obtain copies of the printed request Form
PCT/RO/101, free of charge, from the receiving Office with which he/she plans
to file an international application or from the International Bureau. To
facilitate preparation of the request, the International Bureau has prepared
downloadable PDF (portable document format) versions on its website. These may
be downloaded from <https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/forms/> and completed using a
computer or printed out and filled in using a typewriter. The request, and
instructions on how to complete the editable version, is also available from
that site.

  

5.017. Must I indicate a file reference?

It is recommended that the applicant indicate his/her file reference, if any,
not exceeding 25 characters in length, in the box provided for this purpose on
the first sheet of the request form. The file reference may be composed either
of letters of the Latin alphabet or Arabic numerals, or both. The hyphen
character (“-“) may be used as a separator between alphanumeric characters.
The receiving Office, International Bureau, International Searching Authority
and International Preliminary Examining Authority will use the file reference
in correspondence with the applicant (refer to also to paragraphs 5.105,
10.015 and 11.071 as to the indication of file references on other elements
of, or papers relating to, the international application).

  

5.024. How must the applicant be identified?

The applicant must be identified by the indication of his/her name and address
and by marking next to that indication, the check-box “This person is also
inventor” in Box No. II, or “applicant and inventor” in Box No. III, where the
applicant is also the inventor or one of the inventors, or the check-box
“applicant only” where the applicant is not also the inventor or one of the
inventors. Where the applicant is a corporation or other legal entity (that
is, not a natural person), the check-box “applicant only” must be marked.
Where the applicant is registered with the receiving Office, the number or
other indication under which the applicant is so registered may also be
indicated in Boxes No. II or III. The applicant’s nationality and residence
must also be indicated (refer to paragraph 5.031). For the identification of
the inventor, refer to paragraph 5.035. For later changes in the person, name
and address of the applicant, refer to paragraphs 11.018 to 11.022.

  

5.031. Why and how must the nationality and residence of the applicant be
indicated in the request?

This information is needed to determine whether the applicant is entitled to
file an international application and also to determine the competence of the
receiving Office. It must be provided by an indication of the names of the
country of which the applicant is a national and of the country of which
he/she is a resident. Where the country of residence is not indicated
specifically but a country is indicated in the address, it will be assumed
that the country of residence is the country indicated in the address. For the
procedure where an international application is filed with a “non-competent”
receiving Office, refer to paragraph 6.035. For the manner of indicating names
of countries, refer to paragraph 5.033.

  

5.036. When must I mark the check-box “inventor only” in the request form?

Where the inventor is not also an applicant, the check-box “inventor only”
must be marked and his/her name and address must be indicated in one of the
sub-boxes of Box No. III. The name and address of the inventor may be omitted
from the request where the national law of none of the designated States
requires that the name of the inventor be furnished at the time of filing a
national application. Annexes B indicate what the requirements are for each
Contracting State or intergovernmental organization. However, unless special
reasons prevent the indication of the name and address of the inventor, it is
recommended that it always be included in the request since such information
is generally required in the national phase.

  

5.045. May I appoint a new agent or additional agents after having filed the
international application?

Further agents may be appointed at any time to represent the applicant either
generally or specifically before the International Searching Authority or the
International Preliminary Examining Authority, and an agent appointed for
general purposes, unless otherwise indicated in the document appointing that
agent, may appoint sub-agents to represent the applicant. The appointment of a
new agent is treated as revocation of any former appointment of agents, unless
otherwise indicated in the power of attorney appointing the new agent.

  

5.055. Is it possible to choose a kind of protection other than a patent, and
if so how is it done?

As indicated in paragraph 5.052, the filing of the request constitutes the
indication that the international application is, in respect of each
designated State to which Article 43 or 44 applies, for the grant of every
kind of protection which is available by way of the designation of that State.
Examples of such kinds of protection are an inventor’s certificate, a utility
certificate, a utility model, a “petty patent”, a patent of addition, a
certificate of addition or an inventor’s certificate of addition. It is not
possible, during the international phase, to indicate the wish to obtain a
certain kind of protection for a particular designated Office. Any further
choice of the kind of protection sought can only be made at the time of
national phase entry before the respective designated Offices. Please note,
however, that it is possible to withdraw a certain type of protection in
respect of the designation of a State. Annexes B indicate, for each
Contracting State, the kinds of protection available.

  

5.062. What are the consequences if the international application is filed
after the expiration of the priority period?

Where an international application has an international filing date which is
later than the date on which the priority period expired (refer to paragraph
5.059) but within a period of two months from that date, the priority claim
concerned will not be declared void for the purposes of the international
phase of the PCT procedure, irrespective of whether the restoration of the
right of priority is requested (refer to below), or whether such a request is
accepted or refused by the receiving Office. Where the priority claim in
question is the only or the earliest priority claim in the international
application, it will continue to serve as the basis to calculate all time
limits during the international phase. Note, however, that the fact that the
priority claim is retained in the international application does not mean in
any way that the validity of such a priority claim in the national phase is
assured.

In respect of such a priority claim, the applicant may file a request for the
restoration of the right of priority with the receiving Office (refer to the
following paragraphs for the procedure relating to the restoration of the
right of priority). Several receiving Offices have, however, notified the
International Bureau under Rule 26 _bis_.3(j) of the incompatibility of the
provisions governing such requests to restore the right of priority with the
national laws applied by those Offices. As a result, those receiving Offices
will not apply those provisions and thus do not accept such requests. A list
of Offices which will not accept requests under Rule 26 _bis_.3(a) can be
found on WIPO’s website at
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html#R_26bis_3_j>.
To the extent that the applicant is aware, before filing the international
application, of the need to file a request for restoration, he/she should
consider filing the international application with a competent receiving
Office that does accept such requests. For example, the receiving Office of
the International Bureau accepts such requests and is competent for
international applications filed by a national or resident of any PCT
Contracting State. If the need to file a request to restore only becomes
apparent after the international application has already been filed, the
applicant may request the receiving Office to transmit the international
application to the receiving Office of the International Bureau under Rule
19.4(a)(iii).

  

5.067. Can the applicant request that certain documents relating to a request
for the restoration of the right of priority not be transmitted to the
International Bureau?

Generally, receiving Offices will forward to the International Bureau all
documents submitted in connection with a request for restoration of the right
of priority. However, the applicant can make a reasoned request to the
receiving Office that certain documents or parts thereof relating to such a
request not be forwarded. Receiving Offices may also contact the applicant
directly where such documents are noted to invite the applicant to submit a
reasoned request for omission. If the receiving Office, upon the applicant’s
request, finds that any document does not obviously serve the purpose of
informing the public about the international application and publication or
public access to any such document would clearly prejudice the personal or
economic interests of any person and there is no prevailing public interest to
have access to that document or part of it, it will not transmit that document
or part of it to the International Bureau. The applicant should note that if
essential information, necessary for establishing that the criterion for “due
care” had been met, is not forwarded and thus not made available to the
designated/elected Offices, it is more likely that the request for restoration
of the right of priority will be reviewed during the national phase, and that
he/she will be required to provide equivalent information again to the
designated/elected Offices.

  

5.073. Can the International Searching Authority be requested to take into
account the results of an earlier search?

If the applicant wishes the International Searching Authority, in carrying out
the international search, to take into account the results of an earlier
international, international-type or national search (Rule 4.12) and has
complied with all the requirements under Rule 12 _bis_.1, the Authority must,
to the extent possible, take into account the results of the earlier search if
it was carried out by the same Office as that which is acting as the
International Searching Authority (Rule 41.1(i)). However, if the earlier
search was carried out by another International Searching Authority or
national (or regional) Office, the International Searching Authority may
choose whether it takes into account the results of the earlier search (Rule
41.1(ii)). To the extent that the International Searching Authority takes such
earlier search results into account, the International Searching Authority
must reduce the search fee to the extent and under the conditions provided for
in the agreement under Article 16(3)(b) (Rule 16.3). International Searching
Authorities are free to decide the extent and conditions for such search fee
reductions. For the full texts of the agreements under Article 16(3)(b) refer
to <https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/access/isa_ipea_agreements.html> (also refer
to paragraph 5.198).

The request form, Continuation of Box No. VII (item 1), includes an option for
the applicant to request that the results of an earlier search be taken into
consideration by the International Searching Authority and a similar option is
included in ePCT. The applicant only needs to check the corresponding box in
Continuation of Box No. VII (item 1) and identify the earlier application
(whether national, regional or international) in respect of which the earlier
search was carried by including the filing date, the filing number and the
country of filing.

In general, if the applicant has made a request for the results of an earlier
search to be taken into account, he/she should – together with the
international application and at the time of filing – provide the receiving
Office with a copy of the results of the earlier search. However, the
applicant will not need to furnish a copy of the earlier search results in the
following cases:

— where the earlier search was carried out by the same Authority or Office as
that which will act as the International Searching Authority;

— where the earlier search was not carried out by the International Searching
Authority indicated in Box No. VII of the request form but by the same Office
as that which is acting as the receiving Office; in this case, the applicant
can request the receiving Office to prepare and transmit the earlier search
results directly to the International Searching Authority by marking the
check-box provided in Continuation of Box No. VII (item 1) of the request
form. This request may be subject to the payment of a fee;

— where, although the earlier search was not carried out by the receiving
Office or the International Searching Authority, a copy of the earlier search
results is available to that Office or Authority in a form and manner
acceptable to it, for example, from a digital library and the applicant
indicated this fact as provided for in Continuation of Box No. VII (item 1) of
the request form.

If the applicant wants the results of more than one search to be taken into
account, the above-mentioned indications must be specified for each and every
earlier search. In addition, where the applicant requests the International
Searching Authority to take into account the results of more than one earlier
search, the sheet of the request form containing the Continuation of Box No.
VII, Use of Earlier Search and Classification Results, should be duplicated as
many times as necessary and marked "continuation sheet of item 1 of
Continuation of Box No. VII" to allow the applicant to comply with the
requirements and provide the required information for each earlier
application.

  

5.075. What is the purpose of those declarations?

The purpose of declarations under Rule 4.17 is to enable applicants to comply
with some of the national requirements of the designated Offices referred to
in Rule 51 _bis_.1 already during the international phase. The national laws
of many designated Offices require the applicant to furnish documents or
evidence relating to certain matters, for example the applicant’s entitlement
to apply for or be granted a patent, during the national phase. By submitting
declarations under Rule 4.17 during the international phase, the applicant
will generally not have to furnish any documents or evidence on the particular
subject matter covered by the declaration to any designated Office which has
such a requirement. For example, when the applicant furnishes a declaration
under Rule 4.17(ii) during the international phase, he/she does generally not
need to submit any further document or evidence relating to the applicant’s
entitlement to apply for or be granted a patent (for example an assignment
document transferring rights from the inventor to the applicant) during the
national phase before designated Offices which have such requirements under
their national law (refer also to paragraph 5.081). The PCT does not require
that declarations be submitted during the international phase, but if they
are, they should be prepared using standardized wording (refer to paragraphs
5.076 to 5.078). No other declaration(s) may be included in any of Boxes VIII
(i) to (v).

  

5.089. May the international application be signed by an agent?

The international application may be signed by an agent, but in that case the
agent must be appointed as such in a separate power of attorney signed by the
applicant. The power of attorney has to be submitted to the receiving Office
unless the receiving Office has waived the requirement to furnish a separate
power of attorney (refer to paragraphs 5.041 to 5.051, and 11.001 to 11.014).
If there are two or more applicants, the request may be signed by an agent on
behalf of all or only some of them; in that case the agent must be appointed
as such in one or more powers of attorney signed by the applicants on whose
behalf the agent signs the application. Where a power of attorney appointing
an agent who signs an international application is missing and the receiving
Office requires that a power of attorney be furnished, the signature is
treated as missing until the power of attorney is submitted. For the case of a
general power of attorney, refer to paragraphs 5.043 and 11.009.

  

5.175. What other formal requirements does the international application have
to meet?

The international application may not contain matter contrary to morality or
public order, disparaging statements or obviously irrelevant or unnecessary
matter. When the receiving Office, the International Searching Authority, the
Authority specified for supplementary search or the International Bureau note
lack of compliance with the prescriptions of Rule 9, the Office or Authority
may suggest that the applicant correct the international application
accordingly. For the procedure to correct a defect under Rule 9, refer to
paragraph 6.052.

  

  
CHAPTER 6: PROCESSING OF THE INTERNATIONAL APPLICATION BY THE RECEIVING OFFICE

6.003. How does the international application reach the receiving Office?

The international application may be deposited with or mailed to the receiving
Office, or filed online (e.g.) if the receiving Office offers such a service.
It may also be filed by other means of rapid communication, notably by
facsimile machine, provided that the receiving Office places such facilities
at the disposal of applicants and that the original is furnished within 14
days, if so required by the receiving Office (refer to Annexes B). The
requirements in relation to filing the international application and any
subsequent documents by facsimile machine are explained in more detail in
paragraphs 11.067 to 11.070.

  

6.005. What are the conditions that must be fulfilled for the international
application to be entitled to an international filing date?

The receiving Office must accord an international filing date to the
international application if it finds that the following conditions are
fulfilled:

(i) the applicant does not obviously lack, for reasons of residence or
nationality, the right to file an international application with the receiving
Office (refer to paragraphs 5.008, 5.020 and 5.023);

(ii) the international application is in the prescribed language (refer to
paragraph 6.006);

(iii) the international application contains at least the following elements:

(a) an indication that it is intended as an international application,

(b) a request which constitutes the designation of a Contracting State bound
by the PCT on the international filing date (under Rule 4.9(a) - refer to
paragraph 5.052),

(c) the name of the applicant (for this purpose it is sufficient if the name
of the applicant is indicated in a way which allows his/her identity to be
established, even if the name is misspelled, or the given names are not fully
indicated, or, in the case of legal entities, the indication of the name is
abbreviated or incomplete),

(d) a part which on the face of it appears to be a description,

(e) a part which on the face of it appears to be a claim or claims.

  

6.025. What defects influence the international filing date?

(i) Where the receiving Office finds that the international application does
not comply with the requirements for according an international filing date -
in other words:

(a) that the applicant obviously lacks, for reasons of residence and
nationality, the right to file an international application with the receiving
Office (but also refer to paragraphs 6.035 and 6.036);

(b) that the international application does not contain an indication that it
is intended as an international application;

(c) that the international application does not contain a request which
constitutes the designation of all Contracting States bound by the PCT on the
international filing date (underRule 4.9(a) - refer to paragraph 5.052);

(d) that the international application does not contain the name of the
applicant or does not contain at least the minimum indications concerning the
name of the applicant which are indicated in paragraph 6.005(iii)(c);

(e) that the international application does not contain a part which, on the
face of it, appears to be a description and a part which, on the face of it,
appears to be a claim or claims;

the receiving Office invites the applicant to correct the defect. The time
limit for filing the correction is two months from the date of the invitation
to correct. If the correction is made within the time limit, the date of
receipt of the correction becomes the international filing date; otherwise,
the application is not treated as an international application (but also refer
to paragraphs 6.035 and 6.036 in relation to the applicant’s residence and
nationality, and paragraphs 6.013 to 6.020 for applications filed in a
language which is accepted by the receiving Office but which is not both a
language accepted by the International Searching Authority which is to carry
out international searching, and a language of publication). Where the defect
concerns item (i)(e) above, the receiving Office will invite the applicant to
confirm in accordance with Rule 20.6 that the missing element concerned was
incorporated by reference under Rule 4.18 (refer to paragraphs 6.027 to
6.031), in which case it may be possible to retain the earlier date as the
international filing date. Where the required elements of the international
application are not in a language accepted by the receiving Office, that
Office will transmit the international application to the International Bureau
as receiving Office under Rule 19.4 (noting that the International Bureau as
receiving Office is prepared to accept international applications filed in any
language; refer to paragraph 6.034 and Annex C).

(ii) Where the receiving Office finds that parts of the description, claims,
all drawings or parts thereof are, or appear to be, missing or that the
description, claims, parts of the description or claims, all drawings or parts
thereof are or appear to be erroneously filed, it notifies the applicant
accordingly and invites the applicant to correct the defect or else, where
appropriate, to confirm in accordance with Rule 20.6 that the missing part or
correct element or part was incorporated by reference under Rule 4.18 (refer
to paragraph 6.027 to 6.031 for details). The time limit for furnishing such
missing parts or correct elements or parts is two months from the date of the
invitation. If no invitation is issued and the applicant notices and wishes to
correct a defect, this is also permitted within a time limit of two months
from the date on which papers were first received by the receiving Office. If
the missing parts or correct elements or parts are furnished within that time
limit, the date of their receipt becomes the international filing date, unless
the applicant is able to confirm in accordance with Rule 20.6 that the missing
part or correct element or part concerned was incorporated by reference under
Rule 4.18 (refer to paragraphs 6.027 to 6.031), in which case it may be
possible to retain the earlier date as the international filing date. Where
missing drawings referred to in the international application are not
furnished within the time limit, any references to drawings in the
international application are considered non-existent and the international
filing date remains as originally accorded. However, where the international
filing date is corrected to a later date, any priority claim will be
considered void, for the purposes of the procedure under the PCT, if the
accorded international filing date falls outside the two month period after
the expiration of the priority period of the priority claim concerned (refer
to paragraphs 5.060 and 6.038).

(iii) Where the international filing date has been corrected, the applicant
may, in a notice submitted to the receiving Office within one month from the
date of mailing of the notification of later submitted elements or parts (Form
PCT/RO/126), request that the missing part or the correct element or part be
disregarded in order to preserve the date on which papers were first received
as the international filing date and, where applicable, to retain the priority
claim (Rule 20.5(e) or 20.5 _bis_(e)). The applicant will be notified of the
decision made by the receiving Office on whether the international filing date
has been restored (Form PCT/RO/129).

  

6.036. May the applicant correct indications of residence and nationality?

If the indications of the applicant’s residence and nationality as stated in
the request do not support the applicant’s right to file an international
application (refer to paragraphs 5.020, 5.023 and 6.005(i)), that is, if the
applicant appears not to be (or, where there are two or more applicants, none
of the applicants appears to be) a resident or national of a Contracting
State, there is _prima facie_ a defect under Article 11(1)(i) and the
receiving Office issues an invitation accordingly to correct that defect
(refer to paragraph 6.025(i)(a)). The applicant may be able to show that
he/she actually had, on the date on which the international application was
received by the receiving Office, the right to file an international
application with that receiving Office. In such a case, the applicant should
submit evidence to the receiving Office accordingly, together with a proposed
correction of the indications concerning his/her residence and/or nationality.
If the receiving Office is satisfied, on the basis of that evidence, of the
applicant’s right to file the international application, the invitation to
correct the defect under Article 11(1)(i) will be considered to be an
invitation to correct a defect under Article 14(1)(a)(ii) and Rule 4.5 in the
prescribed indications concerning the applicant’s residence and/or
nationality, and the indications may be corrected accordingly. If such a
correction is made, no defect will be considered to exist under Article
11(1)(i), and the defect will thus not prevent the accordance of the actual
date of receipt of the international application as the international filing
date. Note, however, that the United States Patent and Trademark Office as
receiving Office has stated that it will not apply the procedure outlined
above.

  

6.045. Can defects in declarations referred to in Rule 4.17 be corrected? Can
declarations be added?

Any defective declaration may be corrected and any new (missing) declaration
may be added by a notice submitted to the International Bureau by the
applicant, either in response to an invitation to correct (refer to paragraph
6.046) or on his/her own initiative. The time limit for correcting or adding a
declaration is 16 months from the priority date. Any correction or addition
which is received by the International Bureau after that time limit is
considered to have been received on the last day of the time limit if it
reaches the International Bureau before the technical preparations for
international publication have been completed.

  

6.050. What happens where the International Bureau receives a correction or
addition of a declaration referred to in Rule 4.17 after the applicable time
limit?

Where the International Bureau receives a correction or addition of a
declaration after the applicable time limit (refer to paragraph 6.045), it
will notify the applicant accordingly. It does not publish that declaration,
or communicate that declaration to the designated Office(s), but informs the
applicant that any such declaration should be submitted directly to the
designated Office(s) concerned. In the case of a declaration of inventorship
signed by at least one of the inventors, the International Bureau will return
the declaration to the applicant.

  

6.054. Can the applicant appeal or file a petition against an unfavorable
decision of the receiving Office?

The PCT does not expressly provide for any appeal or petition during the
international phase. However, practice has shown that receiving Offices
reconsider their decisions on petition, and that some national courts or
appeal boards have accepted appeals against decisions taken by national (or
regional) Offices in their capacity as receiving Offices. However, the latter
possibility, even where the applicant is successful in obtaining a favorable
revision of the decision of the receiving Office, may remain without effect in
the States designated in the international application, particularly when the
applicant has not performed the acts required under Article 22(1), 39(1)(a) or
25 within the applicable time limit.

  

6.058. How does the International Bureau monitor the receipt of the record
copy?

The International Bureau, once informed by the receiving Office of the
international application number and of the international filing date,
monitors the receipt of the record copy. If the International Bureau has not
received the record copy within 13 months from the priority date, it urges the
receiving Office to send it. If, one month later, the record copy has still
not been received, the International Bureau notifies the applicant of the
fact. The applicant can then ask the receiving Office either to transmit the
record copy or to issue – and this must be done free of charge – a certified
copy of the international application which the applicant can directly
transmit to the International Bureau. Only after the expiration of three
months from the above-mentioned notification from the International Bureau to
the applicant may the International Bureau make the finding that no record
copy has been received within the prescribed time limit. Thus the applicant
will always have been warned and offered the possibility of taking care of the
transmittal of the record copy himself/herself before any loss of rights can
occur. The certification of a copy of the international application must be
made free of charge in such a case, and may be refused only in certain cases
(for instance where national security considerations prevent the international
application from being treated as such; for details, refer to Rule 22.1(e)).

  

6.060. Can the applicant obtain certified copies of the international
application?

Upon request and against payment of a fee, the receiving Office must furnish
to the applicant certified copies of the international application as filed
and of any corrections to it. The certified copy of the international
application is the priority document where the applicant claims the priority
of that international application. For copies of priority documents referred
to in the international application, refer to paragraph 5.070.

  

  
CHAPTER 7: THE INTERNATIONAL SEARCH PROCEDURE: PROCESSING OF THE INTERNATIONAL
APPLICATION BY THE INTERNATIONAL SEARCHING AUTHORITY

7.002. Which International Searching Authority is competent?

Each receiving Office (except the International Bureau as receiving Office –
refer to paragraph 5.008) specifies one or more International Searching
Authorities as competent to carry out international searches on international
applications filed with it. For some receiving Offices, different
International Searching Authorities are competent depending on the language in
which the international application is filed or, where the international
application is filed in a language accepted by the receiving Office but not by
the International Searching Authority, translated. Where several International
Searching Authorities are specified as competent by the receiving Office, the
applicant may choose between them (subject to any such language restriction).
Annex C indicates the International Searching Authority or Authorities
specified as competent by each receiving Office, and the languages in which
international applications filed with that Office are accepted for
international search by those Authorities. Where the international application
is filed with the International Bureau as receiving Office, the competent
International Searching Authority (or Authorities) is that (or are those)
which would have been competent if the international application had been
filed with a competent national (or regional) Office as receiving Office. All
of the languages accepted for search by each International Searching Authority
are set out in Annex D. Where two or more International Searching Authorities
are competent to carry out the international search, the applicant must
indicate the Authority of his/her choice in the request form (refer to
paragraph 5.072) and should also indicate it in the fee calculation sheet
(refer to paragraphs 5.093 and 5.187). Finally, within the framework of the
respective agreements relating to the functioning of certain Offices as
International Searching Authorities, these Authorities may provide for
limitations of their competence in respect of certain international
applications. The consolidated texts of these Agreements are available on the
WIPO website at the following address:
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/access/isa_ipea_agreements.html>. For more
detailed information, refer to Annex D.

  

  
CHAPTER 8: SUPPLEMENTARY INTERNATIONAL SEARCH

8.003. Which authorities can be requested to carry out a supplementary
international search?

Only an International Searching Authority that has stated its preparedness to
carry out supplementary international searches (refer to Annex SISA), and
which is not the International Searching Authority that carried out the main
international search, can be requested to carry out a supplementary
international search.

  

8.006. How should a supplementary search request be filed?

To facilitate preparation of the supplementary search request, the
International Bureau has made available Form PCT/IB/375 “Supplementary Search
Request” in editable PDF format on WIPO’s website (instructions on how to
complete and save the editable form are also available at:
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/forms/instructions.html>). This form should be
completed in accordance with indications in the Notes attached to the form.
While use of this form is optional, it is highly recommended. It is further
recommended to submit the form to the International Bureau through ePCT.

  

8.010. What is the language of correspondence with the International Bureau in
connection with supplementary international search?

Any correspondence between the applicant and the International Bureau should
be in English or French, at the choice of the applicant, provided that it is
in the same language as the international application – if the international
application was filed in English or French. However, communications from the
applicant to the International Bureau via ePCT may also be in the language of
publication of the international application.

  

8.014

Where the international application claims the priority of several earlier
applications, the filing date of the earliest application whose priority is
claimed should be indicated as the priority date. A file reference not
exceeding 25 characters may also be indicated, if desired by the applicant
(refer to paragraph 5.017).

  

8.015. How should the applicant be identified?

The applicant should be identified by the indications of his/her name and
address in Box No. II. The requirements for these indications are the same as
those for the request form (PCT/RO/101) (refer to paragraphs 5.025 to 5.034).

  

8.017. How can the applicant receive notifications via e-mail?

If an e-mail address is indicated in Box No. II of the supplementary search
request form, the International Bureau, and the Authority specified for
supplementary search (if it provides such a service), will send notifications
in respect of the international application to the applicant by e-mail, thus
avoiding processing or postal delays. In this case, no paper notifications
will usually be sent by postal mail, unless the Authority specified for
supplementary search is willing to additionally send such paper notifications.
Where the agent or common representative has also provided an e-mail address,
e-mail notifications will only be sent to the appointed agent or common
representative (refer to paragraph 8.018). Note that not all Authorities will
send such notifications by e-mail (refer to Annex B). If no e-mail address is
provided, or if the applicant chooses to receive notifications exclusively by
postal mail, by marking the corresponding check-box in Box No. II, or in the
cases where the Authority specified for supplementary search does not provide
for sending notifications by e-mail, notifications will be sent to the given
mailing address exclusively by postal mail. It is the applicant’s
responsibility to keep any e-mail address details up-to-date and to ensure
that incoming e-mails are not blocked, for any reason, on the recipient’s
side. Changes to the e-mail address indicated should be requested to be
recorded, preferably directly at the International Bureau, under Rule 92
_bis_.

  

8.021. How can an agent receive notifications via e-mail?

If an e-mail address is indicated in Box No. III, the International Bureau,
and the Authority specified for supplementary search (if it provides such a
service), will send notifications to the agent or common representative at the
indicated e-mail address, thus avoiding processing or postal delays (refer to
paragraph 8.017). In this case, no paper notifications will usually be sent by
postal mail, unless the Authority specified for supplementary search is
willing to additionally send such paper notifications. If no e-mail address is
provided, or if the agent or common representative chooses to receive
notifications exclusively by postal mail, by marking the corresponding check-
box in Box No. III, or in the cases where the Authority specified for
supplementary search does not provide for sending notifications by e-mail,
notifications will be sent to the given mailing address exclusively by postal
mail.

  

8.022. What is the address for correspondence?

Where an agent is appointed specifically for the purposes of the procedure
before the Authority specified for supplementary search, all notifications
issued by that Authority will be addressed only to that agent. Otherwise,
correspondence will be sent to the agent appointed previously or to the common
representative, as the case may be. However, where no agent or common
representative is appointed and the applicant wishes correspondence to be sent
to a different address other than that indicated in Box No. II, the applicant
may indicate that address in Box No. III. In such cases, the last check-box of
Box No. III must be marked. However, the last check-box must not be marked if
either of the check-boxes “agent” or “common representative” in Box No. III
has been marked.

  

8.023. Where should the language, for the purposes of supplementary
international search, be indicated?

The applicant should indicate the language, for the purposes of supplementary
international search, in Box No. IV and whether that language is that of the
international application as originally filed, or of any translation furnished
to the receiving Office under Rule 12.3 or 12.4. Where neither the language in
which the international application was filed, nor the language in which a
translation (if any) has been furnished under Rule 12.3 or 12.4, is accepted
by the Authority specified for supplementary search, a translation of the
international application, into a language accepted by that Authority, must be
furnished together with the request. In such cases, the last check-box
concerning language should be marked. Where more than one of the above
applies, the applicant may indicate which language version is to form the
basis of the supplementary international search, by marking the corresponding
check-box.

  

8.024. When and how may the applicant select certain inventions to be
searched?

Where the International Searching Authority has found that the international
application does not comply with the requirement of unity of invention, the
applicant may choose, among the several inventions, which invention he/she
wishes to be searched by the Authority specified for supplementary search. If
the applicant wishes to limit the supplementary international search to an
invention, other than the main invention referred to in Article 17(3)(a),
he/she may indicate this wish by marking the last check-box in Box No. IV of
the supplementary search request form, and state the corresponding numbers of
the claims relating to this invention in the space provided. Where the
international search report is available to the Authority specified for
supplementary search before it starts the supplementary international search,
it may, however, exclude from the search any claims which were not the subject
of the main international search.

  

8.027. What are the Notes to the supplementary search request form?

The Notes to the supplementary search request form are intended to facilitate
the completion of that form. They outline, in relation to each Box of that
form, what indications are required and how they are to be made. The Notes are
not required to be submitted with the supplementary search request.

  

8.029A. Is any fee reduction available?

An applicant is entitled, in accordance with the Schedule of Fees, item 5, to
a reduction of 90% of the supplementary search handling fee if he/she is a
natural person and a national of and resides in a State that is listed as
being a State whose per capita gross domestic product is below 25,000 US
dollars (according to the most recent 10-year average per capita gross
domestic product figures at constant 2005 US dollars values published by the
United Nations), and whose nationals and residents who are natural persons
have filed less than 10 international applications per year (per million
population) or less than 50 international applications per year (in absolute
numbers) according to the most recent 5-year average yearly filing figures
published by the International Bureau or if he/she is, whether a natural
person or not, a national of and resides in a State that is listed as being
classified by the United Nations as a least developed country. (For a list of
States whose nationals and residents are eligible for the fee reduction, refer
to <https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/docs/fee-reduction-january.pdf>). If there are
several applicants, each must satisfy one or the other of the above-mentioned
criteria. However, it should be noted that an applicant is only entitled to
the reduction if, at the time of filing the supplementary search request, the
applicant is the true and only owner of the application and under no
obligation to assign, grant, convey or license the rights in the invention to
another party which is not eligible for the fee reduction. If the applicant
is, or all applicants are, entitled to the reduction of the supplementary
search handling fee, this reduction applies on the basis of the indications of
name, nationality and residence given in Box No. II of the supplementary
search request, without the need for a specific request to be made.

  

8.045. What will happen where the Authority specified for supplementary search
considers that the international application does not comply with the
requirement of unity of invention?

If the Authority specified for supplementary search finds that the
international application does not comply with the requirement of unity of
invention (the requirements for unity of invention are set out in detail in
paragraphs 5.114 to 5.123) it will not invite the applicant to pay additional
fees, as the International Searching Authority does in the main international
search. Instead, it will establish the supplementary international search
report on those parts of the international application that relate to the
invention first mentioned in the claims (“main invention”), and notify the
applicant of its opinion that the international application does not comply
with the requirement of unity of invention and specify the reasons for that
opinion. The applicant may, within one month from the date of the
notification, request the Authority to review its opinion, subject to the
payment of any review fee (refer to Annex SISA). The review fee will be
refunded in full where the opinion is found to be unjustified (refer to
paragraph 8.046), and a revised supplementary international search report will
be issued, where appropriate.

  

8.053. Will the supplementary international search report be published?

The supplementary international search report is not published _per se_ nor as
part of the international publication. Nevertheless, once the international
application has been published, and the supplementary international search
report has been received, it is made available for public inspection by the
International Bureau on PATENTSCOPE (<https://www.wipo.int/patentscope/en/>).

  

  
CHAPTER 9: INTERNATIONAL PUBLICATION, AMENDMENT OF CLAIMS, AND OTHER
PROCESSING OF THE INTERNATIONAL APPLICATION BY THE INTERNATIONAL BUREAU

9.001. What are the main procedural steps at the International Bureau?

The main procedural steps that any international application goes through at
the International Bureau are the following:

(i) the International Bureau monitors the receipt of the record copy of the
international application and notifies the fact, and the date of receipt, to
the applicant and the authorities concerned; for details, refer to paragraph
9.002;

(ii) the applicant may amend the claims of the international application under
Article 19 by means of a communication addressed to the International Bureau;
for details, refer to paragraphs 9.004 to 9.011;

(iii) the international application is published by the International Bureau
(such publication usually takes place just after the expiration of 18 months
from the priority date); for details, refer to paragraphs 9.012 to 9.024;

(iv) copies of the international application, the international search report
and the written opinion of the International Searching Authority (in the form
of the international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter I of the
PCT; refer to (v) and (vi) below) pertaining to it are transmitted by the
International Bureau to the designated Offices; for details, refer to
paragraphs 9.028 and 9.029;

(v) where a preliminary examination report (international preliminary report
on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT)) has not been established, the
International Bureau issues an international preliminary report on
patentability (Chapter I of the PCT) (refer to paragraph 7.031);

(vi) copies of that report are transmitted by the International Bureau to the
applicant, and to the designated Offices in accordance with Rule 93 _bis_ ,
but not before the expiration of 30 months from the priority date; the
International Bureau may also, if so requested by any designated State,
transmit a copy of a translation into English of the international preliminary
report on patentability (Chapter I of the PCT) to any interested designated
Office and to the applicant at the same time as it communicates the report to
that Office;

(vii) where a demand for international preliminary examination has been filed,
the International Bureau notifies the elected Offices, transmits the
international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT) and
related documents to them, and makes a translation of that report into English
(if required by any elected Office); for further details, refer to paragraphs
10.006, 10.045, 10.078 10.079 and 10.079A.

  

9.004. When and how may the claims of the international application be amended
in the international phase?

The applicant is entitled, under Article 19, to one opportunity to amend the
claims of the international application in the international phase. (Further
opportunities to amend the claims, and also the description and the drawings,
are available during the international phase under Article 34 if, and only if,
the applicant files a demand for international preliminary examination – refer
to paragraphs 9.011, 10.024 to 10.028, and 10.067 to 10.071). Any amendment to
the claims, under Article 19, must be filed with the International Bureau –
not with the receiving Office or the International Searching Authority. The
amendments must be in the language in which the international application is
published (Arabic, Chinese, English, French, German, Japanese, Korean,
Portuguese, Russian or Spanish – refer to paragraphs 9.017 to 9.019). The
opportunity to make amendments under Article 19 is available after the
applicant has received the international search report and the written opinion
of the International Search Authority, and remains available until the end of
16 months from the priority date or two months after the transmittal (that is,
the date of mailing) of that report and opinion, whichever expires later.
Amendments received by the International Bureau after the time limit are still
accepted if they have been received before the technical preparations for
international publication have been completed. Amendments to the claims under
Article 19 are not allowed where the International Searching Authority has
declared, under Article 17(2)(a), that no international search report would be
established. However, it should be noted that, where an international search
report has been established but nevertheless also contains, in Box No. II, a
declaration under Article 17(2)(b) that certain claims were found
unsearchable, either because they relate to subject matter not required to be
searched by the Authority or because they relate to parts of the international
application that do not comply with the prescribed requirements to such an
extent that a meaningful international search could not be carried out,
amendments under Article 19 are allowed in relation to the claims that were
searched (refer to paragraph 7.014). Upon entry into the national phase, if
the claims have been amended under Article 19, a translation of both the
claims as filed and as amended (in the form of a translation of the complete
set of claims furnished under Rule 46.5(a) in replacement of all the claims
originally filed) and any statement may have to be furnished to the
designated/elected Offices (refer to National Chapters (Summaries)). (As to
amendments in the national phase, refer to paragraphs 5.111, 5.127 and 5.162,
the National Phase and National Chapters.) The submission of Article 19
amendments should comprise:

(i) a complete set of claims in replacement of the claims originally filed
(refer to paragraph 9.005)

(ii) a letter which must indicate the differences between the claims as filed
and those as amended plus the basis for the amendments (refer to paragraphs
9.005 to 9.006A)

(iii) an optional statement under Article 19 (refer to paragraphs 9.007 to
9.008)

  

9.008

A statement explaining the amendment is not to be confused with, and must be
clearly distinguished from, the letter indicating the differences between the
claims as filed and those as amended and the basis for the amendment (refer to
paragraph 9.006). It is also distinct from the statement concerning amendments
which must be included in a demand for international preliminary examination
(refer to paragraphs 10.024 to 10.027). It must therefore be identified as
such by a heading “Statement under Article 19(1).” Where the statement does
not comply with the requirements, it is neither published by the International
Bureau nor communicated to the designated Offices.

  

9.010. Should a copy of amendments under Article 19 be filed with the
International Preliminary Examining Authority?

If the applicant submits a demand for international preliminary examination,
he/she should file a copy of the amendments to the claims under Article 19,
the letter which accompanied the amended claims and the statement under
Article 19(1) (if any) with the International Preliminary Examining Authority
with the demand (if the amendment has already been filed), or at the same time
as filing the amendment with the International Bureau (if the amendment is
filed after the demand). Where the International Preliminary Examining
Authority requires a translation of the international application under Rule
55.2, the applicant should also furnish a translation of any amendments made
under Article 19 and any letter that accompanied the amendments if he/she
wishes those amendments to be taken into account for international preliminary
examination. The International Bureau transmits a copy of any amendment,
accompanying letter and any statement under Article 19 received prior to the
filing of the demand to the International Preliminary Examining Authority
unless that Authority indicates that it has already received a copy. If an
amendment, the accompanying letter and any statement under Article 19 are
received after the demand has been filed, the International Bureau transmits a
copy to the International Preliminary Examining Authority in any event; but
timely filing of a copy of these documents by the applicant direct with that
Authority ensures that the international preliminary examination will proceed
without undue delay or uncertainty. Refer to paragraphs 10.024 to 10.028 in
connection with the demand form.

  

9.011. In what circumstances should the claims be amended under Article 19?

Since any amendments of the claims under Article 19 are published with the
international application (refer to paragraph 9.015), such amendment may be
useful to the applicant if there is a reason to better define the scope of the
claims for the purposes of provisional protection in those designated States
whose national law provides for such protection (refer to paragraph 9.024). It
is to be noted that, where international preliminary examination takes place,
the applicant has the right under Article 34(2)(b) to file amendments to the
claims (as well as to the description and the drawings) with the International
Preliminary Examining Authority, regardless of whether or not he/she has filed
amendments to the claims under Article 19 with the International Bureau (refer
to paragraphs 10.024, 10.028, 10.067 to 10.071, and 11.045 to 11.047). There
is therefore normally no need to amend the claims under Article 19 where a
demand for international preliminary examination is filed, unless there is a
particular reason related to provisional protection or otherwise for amending
the claims before international publication.

  

9.012. When and how is the international application published by the
International Bureau?

International applications are published by the International Bureau except in
any of the following cases:

(i) if the international application is not accorded an international filing
date by the receiving Office (refer to paragraphs 6.005 to 6.012);

(ii) if the international application is considered withdrawn before the
technical preparations for publication have been completed;

(iii) if the international application is withdrawn by the applicant (refer to
paragraphs 11.048 and 11.049) before the technical preparations for
publication have been completed;

(iv) if, at the time of the completion of the technical preparations for
publication, the only designated State remaining is the United States of
America (since the United States of America made a declaration under Article
64(3)(a)), unless any of the exceptions specified in Article 64(3)(c) applies.

  

9.013. When does international publication take place?

International publication takes place promptly after the expiration of 18
months from the priority date. However, when the applicant asks the
International Bureau to publish the international application earlier, the
International Bureau does so. If the applicant asks for early publication and
the international search report, or the declaration referred to in Article
17(2)(a), is not available for publication with the international application,
a special fee, the amount of which is indicated in Annex B (IB), is payable to
the International Bureau. Normally, international publication takes place
every Thursday, except when the International Bureau is closed for business.
In such cases, the publication date will be announced in the PCT Newsletter.

  

9.014. When are the technical preparations for international publication
completed?

The technical preparations for publication are completed by the 15th day prior
to the date of publication. However, any change that should be taken into
consideration for publication on a specific publication date should reach the
International Bureau at least one day before the 15-day time limit to allow
the International Bureau to process the change. The last day for receipt of
such changes will therefore always be on Tuesday at midnight (Central European
time (CET)), i.e. 16 days before the publication date when publication falls
on a Thursday (or 17 days before the publication date when publication
exceptionally takes place on a Friday because the International Bureau is
closed for business on a Thursday).

  

9.015. What constitutes international publication?

Publication of international applications filed under the PCT takes place
wholly in electronic form. The published international application will
include any declaration filed under Rule 4.17 and, if available at the time of
publication, the international search report or declaration by the
International Searching Authority to the effect that no international search
report will be established, and also any amendment, including any statement,
under Article 19. Where the time limit for amending the claims has not expired
at the time of the completion of the technical preparations for publication,
the international application is published with an annotation accordingly, and
any amendment received within the time limit is published later. Similarly, if
the international search report or declaration by the International Searching
Authority is not available, the international application is published with an
annotation accordingly and the report or declaration is published separately
after it has been received by the International Bureau. Each published
international application is assigned an international publication number
consisting of the code “WO” followed by an indication of the year and a serial
number (for example, WO 2004/123456). For further details governing
international publication, refer to Article 21 and Rule 48.

  

9.016A. Can the applicant request that certain information be omitted from
international publication?

The applicant can make a reasoned request to the International Bureau to omit
certain information from publication. The applicant should preferably use Form
PCT/IB/384 for such a request, accompanied by replacement sheets from which
the relevant information has been omitted, except for cases where the omission
of information would result in the omission of an entire sheet, and an
accompanying letter drawing attention to the differences between the replaced
sheet(s) and the replacement sheet(s). In the request, the applicant must also
explain why the information does not obviously serve the purpose of informing
the public about the international application, that the publication of such
information would clearly prejudice the personal or economic interests of a
person and that there is no prevailing public interest to have access to that
information. The request for omission of information from publication must be
received by the International Bureau prior to the completion of technical
preparations for international publication (refer to paragraph 9.014).

If the International Bureau finds that the reasoned request satisfies all of
the above-mentioned criteria, it will omit that information from international
publication (and/or public file access, refer to paragraph 11.073A) and inform
the applicant of its decision (form PCT/IB/385). If the International Bureau
decides not to omit the requested information from international publication,
it will inform the applicant accordingly (form PCT/IB/386).

Where the International Bureau has omitted information from international
publication, and that information is also contained in the file of the
international application held by the receiving Office, the International
Searching Authority, the Authority specified for supplementary search or the
International Preliminary Examining Authority, the International Bureau will
also promptly notify that Office or Authority accordingly, so that they do not
make that information publicly available either.

  

9.017. In what language is the international application published?

If the international application is filed in Arabic, Chinese, English, French,
German, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese, Russian or Spanish, it is published in
the language in which it was filed. Where the language of publication is
Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese, Russian or
Spanish, the International Bureau prepares English translations of the title
of the invention, the abstract and the international search report (or the
declaration referred to in paragraph 7.014), and includes the translations in
the published international application. Where the applicant wishes to propose
an English translation of the title of the invention, she/he may furnish the
suggested translation to the International Bureau before the expiration of 14
months from the priority date. The International Bureau shall, to the extent
possible, take the suggested translation into account in the preparation of
the translation. The International Bureau also prepares, where applicable,
French translations of the title and the abstract. The title and abstract are
published on PATENTSCOPE.

  

9.023A. How can international publication be prevented?

The applicant may prevent international publication by withdrawing the
international application, provided that the applicant submits a notice of
withdrawal and that the notice of withdrawal reaches the International Bureau
before the completion of technical preparations for that publication (refer to
paragraph 9.014). It is strongly recommended to send the notice of withdrawal
directly to the International Bureau through ePCT (signing in with strong
authentication at <https://pct.wipo.int/ePCT>), preferably using the
corresponding Action. Using an ePCT Action will ensure that the international
application is immediately flagged as withdrawn in the International Bureau’s
processing system and will prevent publication if submitted before the
completion of technical preparations for international publication. In the
rare situation where ePCT cannot be used, an alternative document upload
system is available at
<https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/UploadDocument.xhtml>; the notice of
withdrawal may state that the withdrawal is to be effective only on the
condition that international publication can still be prevented. In such a
case the withdrawal is not effective if this condition cannot be met – that
is, if the technical preparations for international publication have already
been completed. The same effect may possibly be achieved if, for example
through non-payment of the applicable fees, the international application is
considered withdrawn and the receiving Office so declares (Form PCT/RO/117).
Issuance of this declaration by the receiving Office alone, however, will not
prevent international publication unless the declaration is also received by
the International Bureau before completion of technical preparations for
international publication (Rule 29.1(v)). International publication may be
postponed by withdrawing the priority claim as outlined in paragraphs 11.056
and 11.057.

  

9.027. Can I get access to a copy of the international preliminary report on
patentability (Chapter II of the PCT)?

Concerning access to the international preliminary report on patentability
(Chapter II of the PCT), the International Bureau, if so requested by an
elected Office, makes copies of that report available on PATENTSCOPE to third
parties on behalf of that Office, but not before the expiration of 30 months
from the priority date. A number of elected Offices have made this request to
the International Bureau, refer to
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/access_iper.html>; similarly, the
International Bureau also makes related documents received from the
International Preliminary Examining Authority under PCT Rule 71.1(b) available
on PATENTSCOPE (refer to paragraph 10.079A).

  

9.028. How and when do the designated Offices receive copies of the
international application?

Subject to what is said in this paragraph and in paragraph 9.029, the
International Bureau communicates a copy of the international application in
the language in which the international application is published, to each
designated Office upon their request and at the time specified by that Office,
pursuant to Rule 93 _bis_ , but not prior to the international publication.
Where the language in which the international application is published is
different from the language in which it was filed, the International Bureau
will furnish to any designated Office, upon the request of that Office, a copy
of that application in the language in which it was filed. In practice, the
communication is effected by sending a copy of the published international
application (for details concerning the contents of published international
applications, refer to paragraph 9.015). The International Bureau also sends,
promptly after the expiration of 19 months from the priority date in respect
of designated Offices which do not apply the 30 month time limit, and again
promptly after the expiration of 28 months from the priority date in respect
of designated Offices which do apply the 30 month time limit, a notice (Form
PCT/IB/308 (First Notice) (19 months) and Form PCT/IB/308 (Second and
Supplementary Notice) (28 months)) to the applicant informing him/her of the
Offices to which the communication has been effected and of the date of such
communication. The notices must be accepted by all designated Offices as
conclusive evidence that the communication has duly taken place on the date
specified in the notices. On receiving the notices, the applicant knows that
he/she does not have to send a copy of the international application to any of
the designated Offices indicated on them as having been sent the
communication.

  

9.029. May I submit a copy of my international application to the designated
Offices before international publication?

A copy of the international application (albeit without the international
search report) is communicated by the International Bureau, prior to the
communication referred to in the preceding paragraphs, to any designated
Office which so requests; this transmittal may not be done before the
expiration of one year from the priority date. It should be noted that, to
date, no national or regional Office has asked for a copy of all the
international applications designating it to be the subject of such an early
communication. If the applicant wishes, he/she may at any time transmit, or
ask the International Bureau to transmit, a copy of the international
application to any designated Office. Such special transmittal by the
International Bureau requires the payment of a fee, the amount of which is
indicated in Annex B (IB). Further details are to be found in Article 13 and
Rule 31. It is to be noted that transmittal in this way does not, unless
expressly requested by the applicant, entitle the designated Office to start
its processing of the international application. If, however, the applicant
makes an express request to a designated or elected Office (under Article
23(2) or 40(2), respectively) for early commencement of national processing,
the International Bureau then promptly effects the communication to the Office
concerned upon request by the applicant or the designated or elected Office.

  

  
CHAPTER 10: INTERNATIONAL PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION UNDER CHAPTER II OF THE PCT

10.009

If two or more International Preliminary Examining Authorities are competent,
the applicant will be invited by the Office or Authority to which the demand
was submitted, or by the International Bureau, as the case may be, to
indicate, within the time limit applicable under Rule 54 _bis_.1(a) or within
15 days from the date of the invitation, whichever is later, the competent
International Preliminary Examining Authority to which the demand should be
transmitted. Where the applicant furnishes that indication, the demand will
promptly be transmitted to the competent International Preliminary Examining
Authority. Where no indication is so furnished, the demand will be considered
not to have been submitted, and the Office or Authority to which the demand
was submitted, or the International Bureau, as the case may, will declare that
the demand is considered not to have been submitted.

  

10.010. At what stage of the procedure should the demand for international
preliminary examination be submitted?

A demand may be submitted at any time prior to the expiration of the following
time limits, whichever expires later:

(i) three months from the date of transmittal to the applicant of the
international search report and the written opinion of the International
Searching Authority, or of the declaration, referred to in Article 17(2)(a)
that no international search report will be established; or

(ii) 22 months from the priority date.

In addition, in respect of some Offices (refer to paragraph 5.005), in order
to secure the full effect of the demand – including the delaying of the
national phase until 30 months from the priority date – it must be submitted
before the expiration of 19 months from the priority date. Since international
preliminary examination will normally not start before the international
search report and the written opinion of the International Searching Authority
are available (refer to paragraphs 10.051 to 10.055), the applicant will
normally wish to take that report and opinion into account before deciding
whether to proceed further for patent protection. Note, however, that the 19
month time limit will expire regardless of whether the establishment of the
international search report and the written opinion of the International
Searching Authority are delayed. On the other hand, the length of time
available for the international preliminary examination depends on the
earliest possible submission of the demand after the international search
report and the written opinion of the International Searching Authority are
available, since the international preliminary report on patentability
(Chapter II of the PCT) must in most cases be established before the
expiration of 28 months from the priority date, or six months from the time
provided for the start of the international preliminary examination, or six
months from the date of receipt by the International Preliminary Examining
Authority of the translation furnished by the applicant, if applicable,
whichever period expires last (refer to paragraph 10.074). The more time
available for the international preliminary examination, the better will be
the result and quality which can be expected. Therefore, a demand should be
filed as soon as possible after the applicant’s evaluation of the
international search report and the written opinion of the International
Searching Authority has shown that it is worthwhile to pursue the
international application further.

  

10.015

It is recommended that the applicant indicate the file reference, if any, not
exceeding 25 characters in length, in the box provided for this purpose on the
first sheet of the demand form (refer to paragraphs 5.017 and 5.105 in
relation to the request and the description).

  

10.017. Who may file a demand for international preliminary examination?

If there is a sole applicant, that applicant must be a resident or national of
a Contracting State bound by Chapter II of the PCT. If there are two or more
applicants, it is sufficient that one of them be a resident or national of a
Contracting State bound by Chapter II, regardless of the elected State(s) for
which each applicant is indicated. The detailed requirements for the various
indications required in connection with each applicant (full names and
addresses, telephone, facsimile and/or e-mail address, nationality and
residence) are the same as those required under Rule 4 in connection with the
request (refer to paragraphs 5.023 to 5.034). Where the applicant is
registered with the International Preliminary Examining Authority, the number
or other indication under which the applicant is so registered may also be
indicated in Box No. II. Note that any inventor who is not also an applicant
is not indicated in the demand. Where a question of the applicant’s residence
or nationality arises, the International Preliminary Examining Authority will
request the receiving Office or, where the international application was filed
with the International Bureau as receiving Office, the national Office of, or
acting for, the Contracting State concerned to decide the question and will
inform the applicant of such request. The applicant has the opportunity to
submit arguments relating to the issue of residence or nationality directly to
the Office concerned, which will decide the question promptly.

  

10.019. Does the applicant have to be represented by an agent before the
International Preliminary Examining Authority?

No, the applicant is not obliged to, but may be represented by an agent. In
most cases, it is highly advisable to use an agent (refer to paragraph 1.004).

  

10.020. May the applicant be represented by an agent before the International
Preliminary Examining Authority?

Yes, the applicant may be represented by the agent who represented him/her for
the filing of the international application (if any) or by another agent
having the right to practice before the receiving Office with which the
international application was filed (refer to Annex C). The applicant may also
be represented by an agent appointed specifically for the purposes of the
international preliminary examination procedure and chosen from among those
persons who have the right, according to the Rules applicable in the national
or regional Office acting as International Preliminary Examining Authority, to
practice before that Office (refer to National Chapters, (Summaries)). Refer
to paragraphs 11.001 to 11.014 for more information about representation.

  

10.021A. How can an agent (or common representative) receive notifications via
e-mail?

If an e-mail address is indicated in Box No. III, the International Bureau and
the International Preliminary Examining Authority (if it provides such a
service) will send notifications to that address by e-mail, thus avoiding
processing or postal delays (refer to paragraph 10.018A). If no e-mail address
is provided, or if the agent or common representative chooses to receive
notifications exclusively by postal mail, by marking the corresponding check-
box in Box No. III, or in the cases where the International Preliminary
Examining Authority does not provide for sending notifications by e-mail,
notifications will be sent to the given mailing address exclusively by postal
mail.

  

10.025. What is the purpose of indicating the basis for international
preliminary examination? Do the statement concerning amendments and the
indication of the language for the purposes of the international preliminary
examination have to be filled in?

(i) The statement concerning amendments should be completed, since it enables
the International Preliminary Examining Authority to identify those documents
which will serve as the basis for the start of the international preliminary
examination with a view to starting it as soon as possible. However, failure
to complete the statement or to complete it correctly is not fatal to the
application. In particular, if no amendments have been filed under Article 19
or Article 34 and if the applicant does not wish to file such amendments at
the time when the demand is filed, the result will simply be that the
international preliminary examination will start on the basis of the
international application as originally filed. The applicant will not be
precluded from making amendments at a later stage of the international
preliminary examination, provided that they reach the International
Preliminary Examining Authority in sufficient time to be taken into account.
On the other hand, if there have been amendments but they are not indicated,
or if the applicant wishes later to file amendments but does not so indicate,
the start of the international preliminary examination may be delayed or the
applicant may find that there is insufficient time at a later stage to have
the intended amendments taken into account.

(ii) Completing the indication of the language for the purposes of the
international preliminary examination and its associated check-boxes helps the
International Preliminary Examining Authority determine quickly, with a view
to starting international preliminary examination as soon as possible, whether
the demand and the international application are in a language accepted by
that Authority, or whether a translation of the international application is
required. Completing the indication also helps the International Preliminary
Examining Authority decide whether any amendments filed with the demand (refer
to paragraph (i) above) are in the appropriate language.

  

10.026. How should the statement concerning amendments be completed?

If amendments to the claims have been made under Article 19 (refer to
paragraphs 9.004 to 9.009) prior to the filing of the demand, the statement
must indicate whether, for the purposes of the international preliminary
examination, the applicant wishes the amendments to be taken into account (in
which case a copy of the amendments should be filed with the demand) or to be
considered as reversed by an amendment under Article 34. If no amendments
under Article 19 have been made but the time limit for filing such amendments
(refer to paragraph 9.004) has not expired at the time when the demand is
filed, the statement may, if the applicant so chooses, indicate that the
applicant wishes the start of the international preliminary examination to be
postponed (refer to paragraph 10.054). If any amendments under Article 34 are
submitted with the demand, the statement must so indicate. A more detailed
explanation is given below for each of the check-boxes in Box No. IV.

“1. The applicant wishes the international preliminary examination to start on
the basis of:

⬜ the international application as originally filed”

This check-box should be marked either where the applicant has not made any
amendments under Article 19 and does not intend at the time of filing the
demand to file any amendments, or where the applicant has already made
amendments under Article 19 but is no longer interested in pursuing them.

“the description

⬜ as originally filed

⬜ as amended under Article 34

the claims

⬜ as originally filed

⬜ as amended under Article 19

⬜ as amended under Article 34

the drawings

⬜ as originally filed

⬜ as amended under Article 34”

These check-boxes should be marked only where the applicant wishes amendments
to be taken into account for the start of the international preliminary
examination. Where the applicant wishes amendments which have previously been
made under Article 19 to be taken into account, a copy of the amendments, and
any statement accompanying such amendments, should be attached to the demand.
If a check-box is marked but the demand is not accompanied by the documents
referred to, the start of international preliminary examination will be
delayed until the International Preliminary Examining Authority receives them.
Amendments under Article 34 should be submitted with, and attached to, the
demand. The applicant should also indicate, by marking the appropriate check-
box(es), which parts of the international application are so amended.

“2. ⬜ The applicant wishes any amendments to the claims made under Article 19
to be considered as reversed.”

This check-box should be marked only where the applicant, after having
previously made amendments under Article 19, no longer wishes them to be
considered for international preliminary examination. Marking this check-box
will have the effect that those amendments will be considered as reversed by
an amendment under Article 34.

“3. ⬜ Where the IPEA wishes to start the international preliminary examination
at the same time as the international search in accordance with Rule 69.1(b),
the applicant requests the IPEA to postpone the start of the international
preliminary examination until the expiration of the applicable time limit
under Rule 69.1(d)."

This check-box should be marked only where, at the time when the demand is
filed, the time limit for filing amendments under Article 19 has not expired
(refer to paragraph 9.004) and the applicant intends to file such amendments
after filing the demand. In practice, this situation is only likely to arise
if the demand is filed before the international search report is available. If
this check-box is marked but the applicant later decides not to file
amendments under Article 19, the applicant should send a notice to the
International Preliminary Examining Authority that there is no intention to
file such amendments, and the international preliminary examination will then
start.

“4. ⬜ The applicant expressly requests to postpone the start of the
international preliminary examination until the expiration of the applicable
time limit under Rule 54 _bis_.1(a).”

This check-box should be marked if the applicant wishes to postpone the start
of the international preliminary examination until the expiration of the
applicable time limit under Rule 54 _bis_.1(a). Otherwise, where the
International Searching Authority and the International Preliminary Examining
Authority are not the same Authority, examination will commence once the
International Preliminary Examining Authority is in possession of the required
fees, the international search report, or a notice of the declaration under
Article 17(2)(a) and the written opinion of the International Searching
Authority.

  

10.031. Who must sign the demand?

The demand must be signed by the applicant or, if there is more than one
applicant, by all the applicants making the demand – that is, the applicants
for the States which are elected. However, an agent or common representative
may sign the demand on behalf of the applicant or applicants who appointed
him/her. The demand may be signed on behalf of all the applicants by an
appointed common agent or common representative, or by the applicant who is
considered to be the common representative (“deemed common representative”) if
no common agent or common representative has been appointed (refer to
paragraph 11.006). However, if the signature(s) of one or more applicants is
missing, the International Preliminary Examining Authority will not invite the
applicants to furnish the missing signature(s) provided that at least one of
the applicants has signed the demand. Should a notice of withdrawal be filed
at any time during the international phase, that notice will have to be signed
by the applicant or, if there are two or more applicants, by all of them (Rule
90 _bis_.5), or by any agent or common representative whose appointment has
been effected by each applicant signing the request, the demand or a separate
power of attorney (Rule 90 _bis_.4(a)).

  

10.032. When must or may a seal be used instead of a signature?

In the demand or other papers filed with the China National Intellectual
Property Administration (CNIPA) as International Preliminary Examining
Authority, a seal may be used instead of a signature. In the case of a demand
or other papers filed in English with the European Patent Office (EPO) as
International Preliminary Examining Authority in respect of international
applications filed with the Japan Patent Office (JPO) as receiving Office, a
signature must be furnished instead of a seal. In the demand or other papers
filed with the Korean Intellectual Property Office as International
Preliminary Examining Authority, a seal may be used instead of a signature
(refer to paragraph 5.091 in respect of the request).

  

10.041

In accordance with the Schedule of Fees, item 5, an applicant is entitled to a
reduction of 90% of the handling fee if (a) the applicant is a natural person
and a national of and resides in a State that is listed as being a State whose
per capita gross domestic product is below 25,000 US dollars (according to the
most recent 10-year average per capita gross domestic product figures at
constant 2005 US dollars values published by the United Nations), and whose
nationals and residents who are natural persons have filed less than 10
international applications per year (per million population) or less than 50
international applications per year (in absolute numbers) according to the
most recent 5-year average yearly filing figures published by the
International Bureau; or (b) if the applicant is, whether a natural person or
not, a national of and resides in a State that is listed as being classified
by the United Nations as a least developed country. (For a list of States
whose nationals and residents are eligible for the fee reduction, refer to
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/docs/fee-reduction-january.pdf>). If there are
several applicants, each must satisfy one or the other of the above-mentioned
criteria. However, it should be noted that an applicant is only entitled to
the reduction of the handling fee if, at the time of filing the demand, that
applicant is or all applicants are the true and only owners of the application
and under no obligation to assign, grant, convey or license the rights in the
invention to another party which is not eligible for the fee reduction, as
outlined above. If the applicant is or all applicants are entitled to the
reduction of the handling fee, this reduction applies on the basis of the
indications of name, nationality and residence given in Box No. II of the
demand, without the need for a specific request to be made.

  

10.048

If the applicant complies with the invitation within the specified time limit,
there is no adverse consequence, other than possibly delaying the start of the
international preliminary examination (refer to paragraph 10.050), except
where the defect was that the demand did not permit the international
application to be identified. In the latter case, the demand is considered to
have been received on the date on which the required correction to it is
received, and the International Preliminary Examining Authority informs the
applicant of that date.

  

10.054. How can I postpone the start of the international preliminary
examination?

Where the statement concerning amendments contains an indication that the
start of the international preliminary examination is to be postponed (refer
to paragraph 10.026), the International Preliminary Examining Authority will
not start the international preliminary examination before whichever of the
following occurs first:

(i) it has received a copy of any amendments under Article 19;

(ii) it has received a notice from the applicant stating that the applicant
does not intend to make amendments under Article 19; or

(iii) the expiration of the applicable time limit under Rule 46.1.

Therefore, where the applicant gives such an indication in the demand, he/she
should ensure that the International Preliminary Examining Authority is
informed promptly of any amendments or of any decision not to file amendments,
in order to gain the maximum time possible for the international preliminary
examination procedure.

  

10.061. What documents form the basis of the international preliminary
examination?

The international preliminary examination is based on the claims, the
description and the drawings comprised in the international application.
Amendments to the claims under Article 19 made before the demand was filed are
taken into account unless they are superseded by a subsequent amendment under
Article 34 (refer to paragraph 10.028) or considered as reversed by an
amendment under Article 34 (refer to paragraph 10.026). Amendments made after
the demand is filed, whether under Article 19 or under Article 34, are also
taken into account for the purposes of the international preliminary
examination, except that they need not be taken into account for the purposes
of a written opinion of the International Preliminary Examining Authority or
the international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT)
if they are received after the International Preliminary Examining Authority
has begun to draw up that opinion or report. As to the permissibility of
amendments in general, refer to paragraph 11.047.

  

10.067. How may the applicant react to a written opinion by the International
Preliminary Examining Authority?

The applicant may ask for further clarifications from the International
Preliminary Examining Authority and may voluntarily give clarifications to it,
since the PCT expressly provides that the applicant has a right to communicate
orally, by telephone or personally, or in writing with the Authority (Article
34(2)(a); refer also to Rule 66.6). More specifically, where the applicant
receives a written opinion from the Authority on any of the matters referred
to in paragraphs 10.064 and 10.065, he/she may respond to that written opinion
(refer to Article 34(2)(d)). The response may consist of amendments and/or
arguments. Any change – other than the rectification of obvious mistakes
(refer to paragraphs 11.033 to 11.044) – in the claims, the description or the
drawings (including cancellation of claims, omission of passages in the
description or omission of certain drawings) is considered an amendment. For
the form of amendments, refer to paragraph 10.071. If the International
Preliminary Examining Authority issues one or more additional written
opinions, the applicant’s reaction possibilities are the same as in the case
of the first written opinion. The applicant may request one or more additional
opportunities for submitting amendments or arguments if sufficient time
remains.

  

10.069. Am I obliged to make changes to my international application after
receipt of a negative written opinion?

It should be noted that the International Preliminary Examining Authority
cannot force the applicant to make any change in the international
application. In other words the applicant may disregard any opinion of the
said Authority, either wholly or in part. Such an attitude may lead to an
unfavorable or less favorable international preliminary report on
patentability (Chapter II of the PCT), but the applicant may prefer such a
report (in the hope of overcoming, in the national phase, any difficulties
that it may cause) to an undesirable change.

  

10.072. What happens where the International Preliminary Examining Authority
finds that “unity of invention” is lacking?

If the International Preliminary Examining Authority considers that the
international application does not comply with the unity of invention
requirement (refer to paragraphs 5.114 to 5.123 for the notion of “unity of
invention”), it may choose between two courses of action: it may carry out the
international preliminary examination on the entire international application
and express its views on the lack of unity of invention in the international
preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT), or it may invite
the applicant to either restrict the claims so that they meet the requirement
(in which case the Authority must specify at least one possibility of
restriction) or to pay additional fees (since the preliminary examination fee
is calculated to cover cases where unity of invention exists). If the
applicant chooses to restrict the claims as required, the examination is
carried out on the claims as restricted. If the applicant chooses to pay the
additional fees, the international preliminary examination is carried out on
the claims for the main invention and those claims in respect of which
additional fees were paid, and the report will indicate that such additional
fees have been paid. The additional fees may be paid under protest, in which
case procedures similar to those explained in relation to the international
search apply (refer to paragraphs 7.019 and 7.020). If the applicant neither
restricts the claims nor pays additional fees, the examination is carried out
on the main invention as identified by the International Preliminary Examining
Authority or the applicant, or in cases of doubt as defined in Rule 68.5
(namely, the invention first mentioned in the claims is considered to be the
main invention).

  

10.074. When must the international preliminary report on patentability
(Chapter II of the PCT) be established?

The time limit for establishment of the international preliminary report on
patentability (Chapter II of the PCT) is whichever of the following which
expires last: 28 months from the priority date; six months from the time
provided under Rule 69.1 for the start of the international preliminary
examination; or six months from the date of receipt by the International
Preliminary Examining Authority of the translation furnished under Rule 55.2
(refer to paragraphs 10.051 to 10.055). Thus, under normal circumstances, the
applicant receives the report, at the latest, two months before national
processing at the elected Offices may start. This ensures that the applicant
has time to consider whether, and in which elected Offices, he/she wants to
enter the national phase and to prepare the necessary actions (for details,
refer to National Phase).

  

10.079. How do the applicant, the International Bureau and the elected Offices
receive the international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of
the PCT) and, where applicable, its translation?

The International Preliminary Examining Authority transmits, on the same day,
copies of the international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of
the PCT) (and any annexes – refer to paragraph 10.076) to the applicant and
the International Bureau. The latter transmits copies of the report (including
any annexes) to the elected Offices, as well as a translation into English of
the body of the report where that is required by any elected Office in
accordance with Rule 93 _bis_ ; it is however the applicant’s responsibility
to prepare a translation of any annexes, if required, and send it to the
elected Offices concerned (refer to paragraph 10.078 and the National Phase).
If, in the opinion of the applicant, there are errors in the translation of
the international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT),
he/she may send written observations on such errors to any interested elected
Office and must send a copy of such observations to the International Bureau.
As far as comments on the content of the international preliminary report on
patentability (Chapter II of the PCT) itself are concerned, they should be
addressed to the elected Offices during the national phase.

  

10.079A. Are any other documents in the file of the International Preliminary
Examining Authority transmitted to the International Bureau?

The International Preliminary Examining Authority also transmits a copy of the
following documents to the International Bureau, which will communicate a copy
to the elected Offices at the same time as it transmits a copy of the
international preliminary report on patentability:

— any written opinion issued by the Authority;

— any replacement sheet containing amendments under Article 34 and any letter
accompanying the amendments, including any such amendments and letters that
have been superseded;

— any letter containing arguments that the applicant submitted to the
Authority under PCT Rule 66.3 (refer to paragraph 10.067);

— any invitation to restrict claims or pay additional fees issued by the
Authority;

— any protest against the invitation to restrict the claims or pay additional
fees and the decision thereon, regardless whether or not the applicant has so
requested in accordance with Rule 68.3(c); and

— any other document in its file that it wishes to transmit.

These documents will be transmitted to the International Bureau at any time
after they have become available, but generally not later than the time of
transmittal of the international preliminary examination report. It should be
noted that any International Preliminary Examining Authority may decide to
postpone the transmittal of the aforementioned documents until such time as it
is technically prepared to do so.

  

  
CHAPTER 11: MISCELLANEOUS QUESTIONS CONCERNING THE INTERNATIONAL PHASE

11.001. For what purposes may an agent be appointed?

The applicant may appoint an agent or agents to represent him/her before the
receiving Office, the International Bureau, the International Searching
Authority, any Authority specified for supplementary search and the
International Preliminary Examining Authority – that is, for the purposes of
the international phase generally. The applicant may also appoint an agent or
agents to represent him/her specifically before the International Searching
Authority, any Authority specified for supplementary search or before the
International Preliminary Examining Authority. Agents appointed for the
purposes of the international application during the international phase will
not be automatically regarded as agents by national Offices during the
national phase; other agents may thus have to be appointed for the purposes of
the national phase before each of the various designated Offices (refer to
National Chapters, (Summaries)).

  

11.002. Who may be appointed as an agent?

A person may be appointed as agent for the international phase generally if
that person has the right to practice before the Office with which the
international application is filed. Where the international application is
filed with the International Bureau as receiving Office (refer to paragraph
5.008), any person who has the right to practice before the national (or
regional) Office of, or acting for, a Contracting State of which the applicant
(or, if there are two or more applicants, any of the applicants) is a resident
or national (refer to Annex C) may be appointed as agent. A person may be
appointed as agent to represent the applicant specifically before the
International Searching Authority, before any Authority specified for
supplementary search, or before the International Preliminary Examining
Authority if that person has the right to practice before the Office or
intergovernmental organization which acts as that Authority. The right to
practice before an Office or organization is governed by the national law
applied by the Office or organization concerned.

  

11.003. Are all applicants required to have the same agent?

Each applicant is free to appoint his/her own agent. Ordinarily, however, it
will be convenient for all of two or more applicants to appoint the same
person to represent all of them as their “common agent” (or to appoint a
number of common agents – for example, the partners in the firm of patent
attorneys or patent agents which acts for the applicant).

  

11.005. What is a “common representative” of the applicants?

Where there are two or more applicants and they have not appointed a common
agent representing all of them for the purposes of the international phase in
general, one of the applicants may be appointed by the other applicants as
their common representative. Only a person who is a national or resident of a
Contracting State, and thus is entitled to file an international application,
may be appointed as common representative.

  

11.015. To whom will correspondence be addressed by the various authorities
under the PCT?

Where there is a sole applicant in relation to an international application,
correspondence will be sent to the applicant at the address indicated; or, if
one or more agents have been appointed, to that agent or the first-mentioned
of those agents; or, if there is no appointed agent, but a special address has
been indicated for notifications (refer to paragraphs 5.030 and 5.051), to
that special address.

  

11.016

Where there are two or more applicants who have appointed one or more common
agents, correspondence will be addressed to that agent or the first-mentioned
of those agents. Where no common agent has been appointed, correspondence will
be addressed to the common representative (either the appointed common
representative or the applicant who is the “deemed common representative” –
refer to paragraphs 11.005 and 11.006) at the address indicated; or, if the
common representative has appointed one or more agents, to that agent or the
first-mentioned of those agents; or, if the common representative has not
appointed an agent but has indicated a special address for notifications, to
that special address.

  

11.023. What should be done in the case of the death of the applicant during
the international phase?

The answer to this question depends on the national law applicable in such a
case. The successor to the rights of the applicant (whether an heir, a legal
representative, the estate represented by a legal representative, etc.) should
be indicated as the new applicant, and a request for such a change to be
recorded accordingly should be made under Rule 92 _bis_.1 (refer to the
procedure outlined in paragraphs 11.018 to 11.022). The reason for the
requested change must be indicated. Documentary evidence proving the right to
the application is not required during the international phase (although it
may be required by any designated Office for the purposes of the national
phase of processing).

  

11.025. What should be done if the inventor died before the international
application was filed?

In such a case, the request must indicate the name of the deceased inventor
with an indication that he/she is deceased, for instance: “JONES, Bernard
(deceased).”

  

11.027. What must be done if the applicant is temporarily unavailable to sign
the international application?

Where an applicant is temporarily unavailable, the international application
can be filed without that applicant’s signature. The lack of an applicant’s
signature or of a power of attorney signed by that applicant, where either of
these might be required, are correctable defects under Article 14(1)(a)(i) and
(b), and can be remedied by filing a copy of the request (or, where the
request has been signed by an agent, of a power of attorney (where this might
be necessary)), duly signed by the applicant within the time limit fixed by
the receiving Office for the correction of these potential defects (refer to
paragraph 6.032).

  

11.048. Can the applicant withdraw the international application?

The applicant may withdraw the international application by a notice addressed
to the International Bureau or to the receiving Office or, where Article 39(1)
applies, to the International Preliminary Examining Authority, and received
before the expiration of 30 months (refer to paragraph 5.005) from the
priority date. Any such withdrawal is free of charge. A notice of withdrawal
must be signed by all the applicants.

An appointed agent or appointed common representative may sign such a notice
on behalf of the applicant or applicants who appointed him/her, but an
applicant who is the “deemed common representative” (refer to paragraph
11.006) may not sign such a notice on behalf of the other applicants. Where an
Office, Authority or the International Bureau has waived the requirement that
a separate power of attorney, or a copy of a general power of attorney, has to
be furnished, the waiver does not apply in respect of any notice of
withdrawal.

  

11.050. Can the applicant withdraw designations?

The applicant may withdraw the designation of any State, and in respect of any
kind of protection available, or only in respect of some of the kinds of
protection available, by a notice addressed to the International Bureau or to
the receiving Office or, where Article 39(1) applies, to the International
Preliminary Examining Authority, and received before the expiration of 30
months (refer to paragraph 5.005) from the priority date. Any such withdrawal
is free of charge. A notice of withdrawal must be signed by all the
applicants. An appointed agent or appointed common representative may sign
such a notice on behalf of the applicant or applicants who appointed him/her,
but an applicant who is the “deemed common representative” (refer to paragraph
11.006) may not sign such a notice on behalf of the other applicants.

  

11.056. Can the applicant withdraw priority claims made in the international
application?

The applicant may withdraw a priority claim made in the international
application by a notice addressed to the International Bureau or to the
receiving Office or, where Article 39(1) applies, to the International
Preliminary Examining Authority, and received before the expiration of 30
months (refer to paragraph 5.005) from the priority date. Any or all of the
priority claims may be so withdrawn. Any such withdrawal is free of charge. A
notice of withdrawal must be signed by all the applicants. An appointed agent
or appointed common representative may sign such a notice on behalf of the
applicant or applicants who appointed him/her, but an applicant who is the
“deemed common representative” (refer to paragraph 11.006) may not sign such a
notice on behalf of the other applicants.

  

11.059. Who must sign a notice of withdrawal for a supplementary search
request?

The notice of withdrawal of the supplementary search request must be signed by
the applicant or, if there are two or more applicants, by all of them, or by
the agent or common representative whose appointment has been effected by each
applicant signing either the request, the supplementary search request, the
demand, or a power of attorney.

  

11.064. Can a delay or loss be excused where a delivery service is used?

Some national Offices and intergovernmental organizations also apply these
provisions where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used
to mail documents or letters; refer to Rule 82.1(d) and (e) for details, and
Annexes B for information about which Offices and organizations recognize use
of delivery services for this purpose, and in what circumstances Rule 82.1
will apply to such use.

  

11.065. Can a delay in meeting time limits caused by “ _force majeure_ ”
circumstances be excused?

The provisions of Rule 82 _quater_.1 provide a basis for a general excuse of
delay in meeting time limits before Offices, Authorities or the International
Bureau during the international phase, when resulting from _force majeure_
circumstances like war, revolution, civil disorder, strike, natural calamity,
epidemic, a general unavailability of electronic communications services or
other like reason in the locality where the applicant resides, has a place of
business or is staying. The excuse of delay only applies to time limits fixed
in the Regulations and therefore it neither applies to the priority period,
since the priority period is set by Article 4C of the Paris Convention (for
restoration of the right of priority refer to paragraphs 5.062 to 5.068), nor
to the time limit for entering the national phase in accordance with Articles
22 and 39 (refer to paragraphs 5.005 and 5.006).

  

11.065A

To request an excuse of delay in meeting time limits resulting from _force
majeure_ circumstances under Rule 82 _quater_.1, the applicant must take the
relevant actions (submission of documents, responses to invitations or the
payment of fees) as soon as reasonably possible. Generally, this means within
a short period of the cause of the delay ceasing to apply. For example, in
cases where a strike prevented an agent from reaching his/her office, it would
be expected that the action should, in most cases, be taken either the next
working day or shortly thereafter, depending on how much preparatory work had
been disrupted. On the other hand, where a disaster has resulted in the
complete destruction of an agent’s files, it would reasonably be expected to
take longer to reassemble all the necessary documents and systems to allow the
necessary action to be taken. In the case of general unavailability of
electronic communication services, the applicant must establish that the
outage affected a widespread geographical area rather than being a localized
problem, that it was unexpected or unforeseen, and that there was no
alternative communication means available. The request for the excusing of the
delay and the relevant evidence must be submitted to the competent Office or
Authority or the International Bureau as soon as reasonably possible and, in
any case, not later than six months after the expiration of the applicable
time limit.

As to the form of evidence which would be acceptable, for example, a news
report from a reliable mass media outlet, or a statement or announcement from
the relevant national authority is normally acceptable for this purpose. In
the case of general unavailability of electronic communications services, a
statement from the provider of Internet services or the company providing
electricity to the applicant may also be acceptable.

An Office, Authority or the International Bureau may waive the requirement for
evidence, for example, where it is aware of the occurrence of an event in a
particular State or place which would justify an excuse of delay in meeting
time limits. The Office, Authority or the International Bureau, as the case
may be, sets and publishes the conditions for any such waiver, and notifies
the International Bureau, which publishes the information in question in the
Gazette. The interested party must nevertheless submit a request to excuse the
delay and state that the delay was due to the situation to which the waiver
applies.

  

11.065C

Where the applicant failed to meet a time limit due to the unavailability of
one of the permitted electronic means of communication at the Office or
organization (refer to paragraph 11.065B), she/he must perform the relevant
action on the next working day on which the said electronic means of
communication becomes available and request for excuse of delay indicating
that the time limit was not met due to the unavailability of one of the
permitted electronic means of communication at the Office or organization at
the time of attempted submission.

  

11.068

Applicants should, before sending a document by a means of telecommunication,
check in Annexes B to ascertain the applicable requirements. Where the papers
to be submitted are documents making up the international application or
replacement sheets containing amendments or corrections to the international
application, the original should in any event be mailed as a matter of course
on the same or the following day.

  

11.071. May a file reference be used in correspondence?

The applicant or the appointed agent may mark a file reference in the box
provided for that purpose on the first sheet of the request form (refer to
paragraph 5.017), on each page of the other elements of the international
application (refer to paragraphs 5.105 and 5.124), on the first sheet of the
supplementary search request form (refer to paragraph 8.013), on the first
sheet of the demand form (refer to paragraph 10.015), and in any other
correspondence relating to the international application. The file reference
may be composed either of letters of the Latin alphabet or Arabic numerals, or
both. The hyphen character (“-“) may be used as a separator between
alphanumeric characters. It may not exceed 25 characters. The receiving
Office, the International Bureau, the International Searching Authority, the
Authority specified for supplementary search and the International Preliminary
Examining Authority will use the file reference in correspondence with the
applicant.

  

11.073A. Can the applicant request that the International Bureau restrict
access to certain information contained in its file?

The applicant can make a reasoned request to the International Bureau to omit
certain information from public file access. (For the manner in which such a
request should be presented, refer to paragraph 9.016A). A request to omit
information from public file access may be submitted at any time.

Where the International Bureau has omitted information from public access, and
that information is also contained in the file of the international
application held by the receiving Office, the International Searching
Authority, the Authority specified for supplementary search or the
International Preliminary Examining Authority, the International Bureau will
also promptly notify that Office or Authority accordingly, so that they will
not provide access to such information either.

  

11.074. To what extent is the international preliminary examination
confidential?

Where the applicant requests international preliminary examination, Article 38
expressly provides that the International Bureau and the International
Preliminary Examining Authority may not allow unauthorized access to the file
of the international preliminary examination. Access by third parties to
papers relating to the international preliminary examination held in the files
of the International Bureau and the International Preliminary Examining
Authority thus will be permitted only if that is requested or authorized by
the applicant. However, once the international preliminary report on
patentability (Chapter II of the PCT) and related documents have been
communicated to each elected Office by the International Bureau, third parties
may gain access to these documents. Such access may be allowed only to the
same extent as provided by the national law for access to the file of a
national application. Furthermore, the International Bureau will, if so
requested by an elected Office (details of such requests are published in the
Official Notices (PCT Gazette), also refer to
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/access_iper.html>), furnish copies of the
international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT) and
related documents received from the International Preliminary Examining
Authority under Rule 71.1(b) (refer to paragraph 10.079A) on behalf of an
elected Office that has made such a request. However, access shall not be
provided to third parties as to the information which has been omitted from
international publication or public access (refer to paragraphs 9.016A and
11.073A). It should be noted that the furnishing of copies of documents may be
subject to a fee payable to that Office.

  

11.084

A reference to a deposit cannot be disregarded by a designated Office for
reasons pertaining to the institution with which the biological material was
deposited if the deposit referred to is one made with a depositary institution
notified by that Office. Thus, by consulting the Official Notices (PCT
Gazette) (or Annex L), the applicant can be sure that the biological material
has been deposited with an institution which will be accepted by the
designated Office.

  

11.102. How can applicants indicate their interest in licensing the
invention(s) contained in their international application?

Applicants can file a request to that effect either (and preferably) by
completing Form PCT/IB/382 “ _Request for indication of availability for
licensing purposes_ ” available at:
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/docs/forms/ib/editable/ed-ib382.pdf> or by way of
a letter addressed to the International Bureau. Details of the licensing terms
may also be included in the form or letter. All such requests should be sent
directly to the International Bureau, which does not charge a fee for this
service.

  

Close

Current version applicable from 15 Sep 2023 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

