####  Processing

Please wait...

  * TOC
  * CHAPTER 1
  * CHAPTER 2
  * CHAPTER 3
  * CHAPTER 4
  * CHAPTER 5
  * CHAPTER 6
  
Table of contents CHAPTER 1: HOW TO USE THE NATIONAL PHASE OF THE PCT
APPLICANT’S GUIDE CHAPTER 2: ENTRY INTO THE NATIONAL PHASE (GENERAL) CHAPTER
3: TIME LIMIT FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE CHAPTER 4: ACTS TO BE PERFORMED
FOR ENTRY INTO THE NATIONAL PHASE CHAPTER 5: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS TO BE
COMPLIED WITH IN CONNECTION WITH THE NATIONAL PHASE CHAPTER 6: MISCELLANEOUS
QUESTIONS CONCERNING THE NATIONAL PHASE

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide Introduction to the National Phase  

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **15 September 2023**

(published on 15 September 2023)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
From now on, you will find here a summary of changes to each new version of
the PCT Applicant's Guide, as well as the detailed list of these changes.
Moreover, you can now easily access the historical versions of the Guide.  
  
Please note that the 9 February 2023 version contains changes to adapt the
text to inclusive language.  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Table of contents

CHAPTER 1: HOW TO USE THE NATIONAL PHASE OF THE PCT APPLICANT’S GUIDE

CHAPTER 2: ENTRY INTO THE NATIONAL PHASE (GENERAL)

CHAPTER 3: TIME LIMIT FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

GENERAL

REQUEST FOR EARLIER START OF THE NATIONAL PHASE

CHAPTER 4: ACTS TO BE PERFORMED FOR ENTRY INTO THE NATIONAL PHASE

GENERAL

NATIONAL FEES

TRANSLATION OF THE INTERNATIONAL APPLICATION

COPY OF THE INTERNATIONAL APPLICATION

CHOICE OF CERTAIN KINDS OF PROTECTION

NAMING OF INVENTOR

USE OF NATIONAL FORMS

CHAPTER 5: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS TO BE COMPLIED WITH IN CONNECTION WITH THE
NATIONAL PHASE

GENERAL

CERTAIN DECLARATIONS CONCERNING THE INVENTOR, ASSIGNMENTS, ETC.

REPRESENTATION

PRIORITY DOCUMENT: COPY AND TRANSLATION

CHAPTER 6: MISCELLANEOUS QUESTIONS CONCERNING THE NATIONAL PHASE

SUBSTANTIVE CONDITIONS OF PATENTABILITY

CORRECTION OF TRANSLATION

RESTORATION OF THE RIGHT OF PRIORITY

INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE OF MISSING OR CORRECT ELEMENTS OR PARTS

AMENDMENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL APPLICATION FOR THE NATIONAL PHASE

REVIEW IN THE NATIONAL PHASE OF CERTAIN DECISIONS MADE DURING THE
INTERNATIONAL PHASE

EXCUSING OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

RECTIFICATION OF ERRORS MADE BY THE RECEIVING OFFICE OR BY THE INTERNATIONAL
BUREAU

ACTS TO BE PERFORMED DURING THE NATIONAL PHASE

CORRESPONDENCE WITH AND PAYMENTS TO DESIGNATED OFFICES

DEPOSIT OF BIOLOGICAL MATERIAL

FURNISHING OF A NUCLEOTIDE AND/OR AMINO ACID SEQUENCE LISTING

REQUEST FOR ACCELERATED EXAMINATION PROCEDURE

##  CHAPTER 1: HOW TO USE THE NATIONAL PHASE OF THE PCT APPLICANT’S GUIDE

1.001

This part of the PCT Applicant’s Guide (the Guide) contains information on the
“national phase” of the PCT procedure, namely the procedure before the
designated (or elected) Offices. It follows on from information on the
“international phase” of the PCT procedure.

1.002

This part consists of two elements. First, this text which explains in detail
what must be done by the applicant in connection with entry into the national
phase.

1.003

Following this are National Chapters relating to all designated (or elected)
Offices. Each National Chapter is structured as follows:

(i) Title page - containing a table of contents and a list of abbreviations;

(ii) Summary - containing a listing of the specific requirements of each
designated (or elected) Office which must be complied with in connection with
entry into the national phase as outlined below;

(iii) The procedure in the national phase - containing an outline of the main
procedural steps before the Office concerned once the national phase has
started, further details relating to certain particular requirements referred
to in the Summary and information about the fees that must be paid and
national forms that may or must be used by the applicant in connection with
entry into the national phase or during the national phase;

(iv) Annexes - containing a schedule of the fees referred to in the National
Chapter, an explanation on how payment of fees can be made to the Office and
samples or models of forms for use by the applicant in the national phase
(photocopies of those forms are accepted by the Offices concerned).

1.004

In the text of the Guide, “Article” refers to Articles of the PCT, “Rule”
refers to the PCT Regulations and “Section” refers to the PCT Administrative
Instructions. Any use of those expressions in the text of the National
Chapters is followed by an indication of whether they relate to the PCT or to
national legislation. References to a “paragraph” relate, unless otherwise
specified, to the text of the National Phase.

1.005

The Office that is competent for each PCT Contracting State which may be
designated (or elected) is usually the national Office of the State concerned.
For States party to the ARIPO Harare Protocol, the Eurasian Patent Convention
or the European Patent Convention, the national phase procedure takes place
before the national Office and/or the regional Office concerned (the ARIPO
Office, the Eurasian Patent Office or the European Patent Office,
respectively), depending on the kind of designations (for national protection
and/or for a regional patent) which were made. (As to regional patent systems,
refer to International Phase, paragraphs
[4.022](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctip&doc-
lang=en&doc-type=guide#_4.022) to
[4.026](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctip&doc-
lang=en&doc-type=guide#_4.026)). For certain States party to the ARIPO Harare
Protocol or the European Patent Convention which have “closed the national
route, ” the national phase takes place exclusively before the ARIPO Office or
the European Patent Office, respectively (refer to paragraph 2.002 of this
part). Where the national law of a PCT Contracting State provides for patent
protection through the extension of a European patent, the national phase
takes place, in effect, before the European Patent Office (refer to
International Phase, paragraph [5.054](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-
doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctip&doc-lang=en&doc-type=guide#_5.054)). For all States
party to the OAPI Agreement the national phase takes place exclusively before
the OAPI Office (refer to International Phase, paragraphs
[4.022](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctip&doc-
lang=en&doc-type=guide#_4.022) to
[4.026](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctip&doc-
lang=en&doc-type=guide#_4.026) and paragraph 2.002 below). Annexes B contain
information as to the competent designated Offices for each Contracting State.

1.006

The draft of each Chapter dealing with an Office (national or regional) in its
capacity as designated (and elected) Office has been approved by that Office.
Naturally, the Chapters still may not deal with all the questions that could
emerge. Moreover, practices and rules may change, and in any case, the only
authentic sources are the laws, rules and regulations. While any correction,
completion or updating will be effected as soon as possible, applicants are
nevertheless advised to use the services of local patent attorneys or patent
agents, whose expert knowledge and experience cannot be replaced by any
written text.

##  CHAPTER 2: ENTRY INTO THE NATIONAL PHASE (GENERAL)

2.001. What is the national phase?

[Article 11(3)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a11.html),
[Article 23](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a23.html),  [Article
40](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a40.html)  
The national phase is the second of the two main phases of the PCT procedure.
It follows the international phase and consists in the processing of the
international application before each Office of or acting for a Contracting
State that has been designated in the international application (refer to
International Phase). In each designated State the international application
has the effect of a national (or regional) application as from the
international filing date, and the decision to grant protection for the
invention is the task of the Office of or acting for that State (the
“designated Office”). The national phase of processing the international
application by the designated Office is generally delayed until the
termination of the international phase on the expiration of the time limits
indicated in paragraphs 3.001 and 3.002.

2.002. When is an Office a designated Office?

[Article 2(xiii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a2.html),
[Article 4](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a4.html)  
The national Office of a Contracting State is a “designated Office” if the
State is “designated” in the international application for national
protection. The filing of a request constitutes the designation of all
Contracting States that are bound by the Treaty on the international filing
date. However, some States may be excluded from this all-inclusive designation
where they have notified the International Bureau that Rule 4.9(b) applies to
them (refer to International Phase, paragraph
[5.053](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctip&doc-
lang=en&doc-type=guide#_5.053)). Where a PCT Contracting State is party to the
ARIPO Harare Protocol, the Eurasian Patent Convention or the European Patent
Convention and is designated for a regional (ARIPO, Eurasian or European)
patent, the regional Office concerned (the ARIPO Office, the Eurasian Patent
Office or the European Patent Office) is the designated Office. Where a State
party to the ARIPO Harare Protocol, the Eurasian Patent Convention or the
European Patent Convention is designated twice, namely both for national
protection and for a regional patent, there are two designated Offices for
that State - the national Office of the State itself and the regional Office
concerned. However, certain States party to the ARIPO Harare Protocol or the
European Patent Convention have “closed the national route” whereby patent
protection can be obtained in those countries via an international application
only by way of a designation for a regional (ARIPO or European) patent. If any
of the States that have “closed the national route” are designated, the
designated Office concerned is always the ARIPO Office or the European Patent
Office, respectively (refer to International Phase, paragraphs
[4.022](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctip&doc-
lang=en&doc-type=guide#_4.022) to
[4.026](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctip&doc-
lang=en&doc-type=guide#_4.026)). The European Patent Office is also, in
effect, the designated Office where patent protection is desired for a
designated State through the extension of a European patent to that State, a
possibility which is only available for countries which have a corresponding
agreement with the European Patent Organisation (refer to Annex B (EP) and the
National Chapter (Summary) relating to the European Patent Office). Where
States party to the OAPI Agreement are designated, the OAPI Office, by virtue
of the provisions of that Agreement, is always the designated Office (refer to
International Phase, paragraphs [4.022](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-
doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctip&doc-lang=en&doc-type=guide#_4.022) to
[4.026](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctip&doc-
lang=en&doc-type=guide#_4.026)). The competent designated Office(s) for each
Contracting State is (are) set out in Annexes B.

2.003

[Article 24(1)(i)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a24.html),
[Article 24(ii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a24.html),  [Rule
90 _bis_.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90bis.html)  
Where the applicant, before the expiration of the time limit for entering the
national phase, voluntarily withdraws a designation, the Office of or acting
for the State whose designation is withdrawn ceases to be a designated Office.

2.004. When is an Office an elected Office?

[Article 2(xiv)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a2.html),
[Article 31](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a31.html)  
Where a demand for international preliminary examination is filed, the term
“elected Office” is used - instead of the term “designated Office” - to denote
the Office of or acting for a State in which the applicant intends to use the
results of the international preliminary examination. Since only designated
States can be elected, all elected Offices are necessarily also designated
Offices.

2.005

[Article 37](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a37.html),  [Rule 90
_bis_.4](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r90bis.html)  
Where the demand is withdrawn prior to the date on which examination or
processing may start in the national phase, or where the applicant fails to
pay the preliminary examination fee or the handling fee and, consequently, the
demand is considered as if it had not been submitted, the Office of or acting
for the State which has been elected in the demand ceases to be an elected
Office.

2.006. How does the national phase start?

[Article 22(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a22.html),
[Article 23](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a23.html),  [Article
39(1)(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a39.html),  [Article
40](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a40.html)  
The national phase starts only if the applicant performs certain acts, either
before the expiration of a certain time limit or together with an express
request that it starts earlier. The applicant should not expect any
notification inviting him/her to perform those acts; it is the applicant’s own
responsibility to perform them in due time. The consequences of failure to do
so are fatal to the application in a number of designated States (refer to
paragraphs 4.003 and 4.004). It should be noted that the acts must be
performed in due time even if, for some reason, the international search
report and the written opinion of the International Searching Authority or the
international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter I or II of the PCT)
are not yet available. Details of the acts to be performed and the applicable
time limits are given in the following paragraphs.

##  CHAPTER 3: TIME LIMIT FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

GENERAL

3.001. What is the time limit for entering the national phase before a
designated Office?

[Article 2(xi)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a2.html),  [Article
22](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a22.html)  
Subject to what is said below, no designated Office may normally process or
examine the international application prior to the expiration of 30 months
from the priority date and any fees due to a designated Office and any
translation of the international application to be furnished to a designated
Office will have to be paid and furnished, respectively, only by the
expiration of that 30-month period (“priority date” means, where the
international application contains a priority claim, the filing date of the
application whose priority is claimed, and, where it does not contain such a
claim, the filing date of the international application; where the
international application contains two or more claims, “priority date” means
the filing date of the earliest application whose priority is claimed). In
respect of certain designated Offices, the applicable time limit is 20 months,
not 30 months because of the incompatibility, for the time being, of the
modified PCT provision (PCT Article 22(1)) with the relevant national law;
those Offices made a declaration of incompatibility which will remain in
effect until it is withdrawn by the respective Offices. Furthermore, certain
designated Offices have fixed time limits expiring even later than 30 months,
or 20 months, as the case may be. For regular updates on these applicable time
limits, refer to the relevant National Chapters; a cumulative table is also
available from WIPO’s website at
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/time_limits.html>.

3.002. What is the time limit for entering the national phase before an
elected Office?

[Article 2(xi)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a2.html),  [Article
39(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a39.html),  [Article
64(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a64.html),  [Rule 54
_bis_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r54bis.html)  
The time limit is normally 30 months from the priority date, the same time
limit for entering the national phase as that which applies in the case of a
designated Office which has not been elected (refer to paragraph 3.001). In
respect of the designated Offices, for which the 20-month time limit applies
(refer to paragraph 3.001), the time limit is 30 months from the priority date
if the applicant files a demand for international preliminary examination
prior to the expiration of 19 months from the priority date. The national law
applied by each elected Office may fix a time limit which expires later than
30 months from the priority date. The National Chapter (Summary) relating to
each elected Office in respect of which an extended time limit applies
indicates the length of that time limit as does the table referred to in
paragraph 3.001. It should be noted that some Offices apply different time
limits depending on whether the applicant enters the national phase under
Chapter I (Article 22) or Chapter II (Article 39(1)) (for details refer to the
table referred to in paragraph 3.001). In those cases, it is recommended that
applicants enter the national phase before elected Offices no later than 30
months from the priority date in order to ensure timely national phase entry.

3.003. Are reminders to enter the national phase sent to the applicant by the
designated Offices? What happens if the international search report or the
international preliminary examination report is late?

Designated Offices usually do not issue any reminder to applicants that the
time limit for entering the national phase is about to expire (or has just
expired). It is therefore the applicant’s responsibility to monitor the
applicable time limit(s) in order for the application not to lose its effect
before the designated Offices. The applicant is responsible for timely
performance of the acts required for entry into the national phase even if the
international search report and the written opinion of the International
Searching Authority or the international preliminary report on patentability
(Chapter I or II of the PCT) have not been established by the time the
applicant has to make a decision about how to proceed (refer to International
Phase, paragraphs [7.023](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=pctip&doc-lang=en&doc-type=guide#_7.023),
[7.027](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctip&doc-
lang=en&doc-type=guide#_7.027), [7.031](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-
doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctip&doc-lang=en&doc-type=guide#_7.031) and
[10.074](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctip&doc-
lang=en&doc-type=guide#_10.074)).

REQUEST FOR EARLIER START OF THE NATIONAL PHASE

3.004. Can the national phase start before the expiration of the time limit
for entering it?

[Article 23](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a23.html),  [Article
40](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a40.html)  
The PCT provides, in Articles 23 and 40, that national processing may not
start before the expiration of the time limits indicated in paragraphs 3.001
and 3.002 unless the applicant makes an express request to the Office
concerned that it start the processing and the examination of the
international application earlier. Such a request is not effective, however,
unless the applicant has performed the prescribed acts indicated in the
following paragraphs. The attention of applicants is drawn to the information
in paragraph 4.028.

##  CHAPTER 4: ACTS TO BE PERFORMED FOR ENTRY INTO THE NATIONAL PHASE

GENERAL

4.001. What must be done by the applicant before the start of the national
phase?

[Article 22(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a22.html)  
The following acts must be performed (if applicable):

(i) payment of the national fee (refer to paragraphs 4.005 to 4.007);

(ii) furnishing of a translation, if prescribed (refer to paragraphs 4.008 to
4.026);

(iii) in exceptional cases (if a copy of the international application has not
been communicated to the designated Office under Article 20), furnishing of a
copy of the international application, except where not required by that
Office (refer to paragraphs 4.027 and 4.028);

(iv) in exceptional cases (if the name and address of the inventor were not
given in the request when the international application was filed, but the
designated Office allows them to be given at a time later than that of the
filing of a national application), furnishing of the indication of the name
and address of the inventor (refer to paragraphs 4.030 and 4.031).

4.002

[Article 27(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a27.html),
[Article 27(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a27.html),
[Article 27(6)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a27.html),
[Article 27(7)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a27.html),  [Rule
51 _bis_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51bis.html)  
There may be acts in addition to those described in paragraph 4.001 which must
be performed for the international application to proceed in the national
phase, but none of those acts, which are described further below and in the
National Chapter relating to each designated Office, has to be performed
within the time limit for entering the national phase.

4.003. What are the consequences of failure to perform the acts required for
entry into the national phase?

[Article 24(1)(iii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a24.html),
[Article 39(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a39.html)  
The consequences where, on expiration of the applicable time limit for
entering the national phase, the required acts have not (all) been performed,
are that the international application loses the effect of a national
application and the procedure comes to an end in respect of each Office before
which they have not (all) been performed. Non-performance of the required acts
in respect of one Office does not alter the effect of the international
application before the other Offices. The automatic loss of the effect
relieves the applicant, where he/she decides not to pursue the international
application in the national phase, of the need to expressly withdraw the
international application or the designation or election of a certain State.

4.004

[Article 48(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a48.html),  [Rule
49.6,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49.html) [Rule 82
_bis_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r82bis.html)  
Where the applicant fails to perform the required acts in time, he/she may ask
the designated Office to maintain the effect of the international application
and to excuse the delay (refer to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027).

NATIONAL FEES

4.005. What fees must be paid for entry into the national phase and when?

[Article 22(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a22.html),
[Article 39(1)(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a39.html),
[Rule 49.1(a)(ii),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49.html) [Rule
76.5](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r76.html)  
The fees to be paid for entry into the national phase are indicated in each
National Chapter (Summary and fees annex). They must be paid in the currencies
and within the time limits that are also indicated there. If annual or renewal
fees have become due by the time the national phase could start, they must be
paid before the expiration of the time limit applicable for entering the
national phase. The National Chapters set out this information.

4.006. How can payment of national fees be effected?

The fees annex to each National Chapter contains this information.

4.007. Does the applicant have the right to claim the exemption, reduction or
refund of national fees?

The exemption, reduction or refund of national fees is granted by various
designated Offices. Each National Chapter (Summary) contains information on
whether fee exemptions, reductions or refunds can be claimed and, if so, under
what circumstances and in what amounts.

TRANSLATION OF THE INTERNATIONAL APPLICATION

4.008. In which case must the international application be translated?

[Article 22(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a22.html),
[Article 39(1)(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a39.html),
[Rule 49.1(a)(i),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49.html) [Rule
76.5](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r76.html)  
A translation of the international application must be furnished if the
language in which it was filed or published is not a language accepted by the
designated Office.

4.009. What is the language into which the international application must be
translated?

[Rule 49.1(a)(i),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49.html) [Rule
76.5](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r76.html)  
The language or languages prescribed by the designated Offices are given in
the National Chapter (Summary) relating to each Office. Where several
languages are given, the applicant may choose the language. It should be noted
that the language in which the translation of the international application is
furnished is usually also the language for the whole procedure before the
designated Office.

4.010. What must the translation comprise?

[Rule 49.5(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49.html) [Rule
49.5(k)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49.html)  
The translation must comprise a translation of the description, including the
title of the invention (where the title has been established or amended by the
International Searching Authority, the translation must only contain the title
as established or amended by that Authority), of the claims (refer to
paragraph 4.014) and of any text matter in the drawings (refer to paragraph
4.022), as originally filed and/or as amended (refer to paragraphs 4.014 to
4.017, 4.019 and 4.020). Where pages have been accepted as incorporated by
reference by the receiving Office (refer to paragraph 6.027 to 6.031 of the
international phase), the translation must contain these pages. Each National
Chapter (Summary) lists what the translation must comprise for the designated
Office concerned. For the translation of the abstract and of the request,
refer to the following paragraphs.

4.011. Does the abstract require translation?

[Rule 49.5(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49.html)  
Normally the abstract must also be translated (where it has been amended or
established by the International Searching Authority, the translation must
only contain the abstract as established or amended by that Authority), but
some Offices do not require a translation for the national phase. The National
Chapter (Summary) relating to each Office which requires that the abstract be
translated contains an indication to that effect.

4.012. Does the request require translation?

[Rule 49.5(a)(i)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49.html)  
The designated Offices have the right to require a translation of the request
but most of them do not require it. The National Chapter (Summary) relating to
each Office which requires that the request be translated contains an
indication to that effect.

4.013. How does the applicant prepare a translation of the request?

[Rule 49.5(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49.html)  
The usual way of translating the request is to transfer the data contained in
the request of the international application as filed to a request form in the
language of the translation. Every designated Office that requires a
translation of the request is obliged to furnish to the applicant - free of
charge - a copy of the request form in the language of the translation. It
should be noted that the use of the request form in the language of the
translation is optional, so that applicants who do not have such a form may
present the translation in a different format.

4.013A. Do declarations under Rule 4.17 require translation?

[Rule 49.5(a)(i)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49.html)  
Declarations are part of the request form and therefore translation of
declarations must be furnished only when the designated Office requires the
applicant to furnish a translation of the request (refer to paragraphs 4.012
and 4.013).

4.014. Which are the claims that must be translated where the claims have been
amended under Article 19?

[Rule 49.5(a)(ii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49.html)  
The designated Offices have the right to require a translation of the claims
both as originally filed and as amended under Article 19. Each National
Chapter (Summary) contains information on the applicable requirements. As to
translations of the claims as amended under Article 19 in a case where the
international application has been the subject of international preliminary
examination, refer to paragraph 4.019.

4.015

[Rule 49.5(c-_bis_)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49.html)  
Where a designated Office requires a translation of both the claims as filed
and of the claims as amended under Article 19, but the applicant furnishes
only one of the required two translations, the designated Office either
disregards the claims of which a translation has not been furnished or invites
the applicant to furnish the missing translation within a time limit which
must be reasonable in the circumstances. If such an invitation is issued but
the missing translation has still not been furnished within that time limit,
the designated Office may either disregard the claims whose translation is
missing or consider the international application withdrawn.

4.016

[Rule 49.5(l)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49.html)  
The procedures outlined in paragraph 4.015 do not apply in all designated
Offices. The various National Chapters (Summary) indicate, for each designated
Office which requires a translation of both the claims as filed and of the
claims as amended under Article 19, whether an invitation is issued where both
translations are not filed and what the consequences are if the missing claims
are not furnished in response to such an invitation.

4.017. Must any statement explaining amendments made to the claims under
Article 19 be translated?

[Rule 49.5(c)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49.html)  
This statement must be translated only where required by the designated Office
(refer to the National Chapter (Summary)). Failure to furnish a translation of
the explanatory statement has no effect on the international application
itself; it can only result in the statement being disregarded by the
designated Office.

4.018. Must a reference to deposited biological material be translated?

[Rule 49.5(h)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49.html)  
Where such a reference is contained in the description, its translation is
part of the translation of the description. Where the reference is not
contained in the description but has been furnished on the optional sheet
(refer to the International Phase, paragraph
[11.075](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctip&doc-
lang=en&doc-type=guide#_11.075)) or in a later communication, a translation
must be furnished together with the translation of the international
application. Where the applicant fails to furnish the translation of the
reference, the designated Office may invite him/her to do so if it deems
necessary.

4.018A. Must declarations or evidence submitted with a request for restoration
of the right of priority during the international phase be translated?

Where the decision by the receiving Office to restore the right of priority is
reviewed by the designated Office under Rule 49 _ter_.1(d), that Office may
require the applicant to prepare translations of any declaration or other
evidence furnished to the receiving Office.

4.019. What must be translated where the international application has been
the subject of international preliminary examination?

[Article 36(2)(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a36.html),
[Rule 70.16,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r70.html) [Rule
74.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r74.html) [Rule
76.5](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r76.html)  
Amendments to the description, claims or drawings under Article 34 that have
been filed with the International Preliminary Examining Authority and have
been taken into account for the establishment of the international preliminary
report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT) will be annexed to that
report. Any amendments under Article 19 as well as replacement sheets
containing rectifications of obvious mistakes authorized under Rule
91.1(b)(iii), will similarly be annexed to the report if they have been taken
into account (that is, they will in general not be annexed to the report if
they have been superseded by later amendments or considered as reversed by an
amendment under Article 34. However, exceptionally where the International
Preliminary Examining Authority considers that a superseding or reversing
amendment goes beyond the disclosure in the international application as
filed, the replacement sheet superseded or reversed by the most recent
superseding or reversing amendment will nevertheless be annexed to the report,
and the report will contain an indication of this as referred to in Rule
70.2(c)). A translation of the amendments annexed to the report must be
furnished together with the translation of the international application
within the applicable time limit under Article 39(1).

4.020

[Rule 70.16,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r70.html) [Rule
76.5(iv)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r76.html)  
If there have been any amendments under Article 19 which are not annexed to
the international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT),
a translation of those amendments need not be furnished to most elected
Offices. A few elected Offices do, however, require translations of amendments
under Article 19 even if they are not annexed to the international preliminary
report on patentability (Chapter II of the PCT) - refer to the various
National Chapters (Summary) for details.

4.021. Does the translation have to contain drawings?

[Rule 49.5(a)(iii),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49.html) [Rule
49.5(e),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49.html) [Rule
76.5](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r76.html)  
No applicant is required to furnish original drawings to the designated
Offices together with the translation of the international application.
Offices may require only the furnishing of a copy of the original drawing(s),
and few actually do so. The National Chapter (Summary) relating to each
designated Office indicates this information. If the copy of the drawings is
not furnished within the time limit for entering the national phase, the
international application does not lose its effect, but the designated Office
invites the applicant to furnish the missing copy.

4.022. How must the translation of text matter in drawings be presented?

[Rule 49.5(d),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49.html) [Rule
49(f)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49.html),  [Rule
76.5](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r76.html)  
Where a drawing, a table or the like contains text matter, that text matter
must be translated. There are two methods that may be used for the physical
presentation of the translated text matter. One is to furnish new sheets of
drawings, tables, etc., containing the translated text matter. The other is to
paste the translation over the original text matter and to furnish a copy of
that sheet. The latter method, however, requires the copy to be of good
quality and fit for reproduction by the designated Office. If it is not, the
designated Office may invite the applicant to correct the defect. The
expression Fig. which is frequently used in drawings does not require
translation into any language. If the translation of the text matter of the
drawings is not furnished within the time limit for entering the national
phase, the international application may lose the effect of a national
application.

4.023. What are the physical requirements for the translation?

[Rule 49.5(j),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49.html) [Rule
76.5](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r76.html)  
The translation of the international application and any copy of drawings must
comply with the physical requirements prescribed by the designated Office.
However, no such Office has the right to require compliance with requirements
as to the form of the translation of the international application that are
different from or additional to those laid down in the PCT and the Regulations
for the filing of international applications. Therefore, if the papers
furnished to the designated Office comply with the physical requirements for
international applications, they must be accepted by that Office. For details
of those physical requirements, refer to International Phase, paragraphs
[5.177](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctip&doc-
lang=en&doc-type=guide#_5.177), [6.032](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-
doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctip&doc-lang=en&doc-type=guide#_6.032) and
[6.051](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctip&doc-
lang=en&doc-type=guide#_6.051).

4.024. In how many copies must the translation be furnished?

[Rule 51 _bis_.1(c),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51bis.html)
[Rule 76.5](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r76.html)  
One copy of the translation is in principle sufficient for entering the
national phase. There are some designated Offices, however, that require two
or more copies. Where this is the case, it is mentioned in the National
Chapter (Summary). If one or more copies are missing, those Offices will give
the applicant an opportunity to furnish them once the national phase has
started.

4.025. Must the translation be certified?

[Rule 51 _bis_.1(d)(ii),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51bis.html)
[Rule 76.5](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r76.html)  
The translation of the international application furnished for entry into the
national phase does not need to be certified by a public authority or a sworn
translator. However, if later the designated Office reasonably doubts the
accuracy of the translation, it may require the applicant to furnish a
certification of the translation.

4.026. Must the translation be verified?

[Rule 51 _bis_.1(d)(i),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51bis.html)
[Rule 76.5](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r76.html)  
Verification of a translation means that the translation must be accompanied
by a statement signed by the applicant or by the translator, to the effect
that, to the best of the signatory’s knowledge, the translation is complete
and faithful. There are only a few designated Offices that require
verification. For each such Office, the National Chapter (Summary) contains an
indication to that effect and gives further details (including forms).

COPY OF THE INTERNATIONAL APPLICATION

4.027. Must a copy of the international application be furnished by the
applicant to the designated Office for entry into the national phase?

[Article 22(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a22.html),
[Article 39(1)(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a39.html),
[Rule 47.1(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r47.html) [Rule
49.1(a-_bis_),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49.html) [Rule
49.1(a-_ter_),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49.html) [Rule
76.5,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r76.html) [Rule 93
_bis_.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r93bis.html)  
Under normal circumstances, none of the designated Offices requires a copy of
the international application to be submitted by the applicant. There are only
a few that do require a copy where the communication by the International
Bureau of a copy of the international application under Article 20 has not, or
could not yet have, taken place (for details, refer to the National Chapters
(Summary)). That communication is effected by the International Bureau in
accordance with Rule 93 _bis_.1 but not prior to the international publication
of the international application. The applicant is notified accordingly by
means of Form PCT/IB/308 (First notice informing the applicant of the
communication of the international application (to designated Offices which do
not apply the 30 month time limit under Article 22(1)), and Form PCT/IB/308
(Second and supplementary notice informing the applicant of the communication
of the international application (to designated Offices which apply the 30
month time limit under Article 22(1)). When the applicant receives these
Forms, he/she does not have to furnish a copy of the international application
to any of the designated Offices, since the notices are accepted by all of
them as conclusive evidence that the communication has duly taken place on the
date specified in the notice.

4.028

[Article 13(2)(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a13.html),
[Article 22(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a22.html),
[Article 23(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a23.html),
[Article 39(1)(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a39.html),
[Article 40(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a40.html),  [Rule
47.4](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r47.html)  
On the other hand, where the applicant makes an express request for early
processing of the international application (refer to paragraphs 2.006 and
3.004) before the communication of the international application has taken
place, he/she must either furnish a copy of the international application, and
of any amendment filed under Article 19 with the International Bureau, at the
same time as making the express request for early processing to the designated
Office or request the International Bureau to transmit a copy of the
international application to the designated Office in accordance with Article
13(2)(b). The other acts prescribed for entering the national phase must
naturally also be performed.

CHOICE OF CERTAIN KINDS OF PROTECTION

4.029

[Rule 49 _bis_.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49bis.html) [Rule
76.5](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r76.html)  
The filing of a request constitutes an indication that the international
application is, in respect of each designated Office to which Article 43 or 44
applies, for the grant of every kind of protection which is available by way
of the designation of that State. As a result, if the applicant wishes the
international application to be treated in a designated Office as an
application not for the grant of a patent but for the grant of another kind of
protection available for the designated Office, or for the grant of more than
one kind of protection, the applicant is required to indicate a choice of
protection to the designated Office when performing the acts to enter the
national phase. Similarly and within the same time limits, the applicant is
required to make such indications also in cases where he/she wishes the
international application to be treated in a designated Office as an
application for a patent of addition, a certificate of addition, inventor's
certificate of addition, a utility certificate of addition or as a
continuation or a continuation-in-part. Although some designated Offices may
require the applicant to furnish any such indications at the time the acts
referred to in Article 22 or Article 39 are performed, many designated Offices
would allow the applicant to furnish such indications or, where applicable,
convert from one kind of protection to another, at a later time as provided by
national law.

NAMING OF INVENTOR

4.030. In which case must the name and address of the inventor be indicated
for entry into the national phase?

[Article 22(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a22.html)  
If the name or address of the inventor or inventors has not been indicated in
the request at the time of filing, that information must be furnished to the
designated Offices at the time of entry into the national phase. If such
indications are required, most of the designated Offices will invite the
applicant to furnish them if he/she fails to do so on entering the national
phase, but some Offices will not. Details are given in the National Chapters
(Summary).

4.031

[Article 27(2)(ii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a27.html),
[Rule 51 _bis_.1(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51bis.html)
[Rule 76.5](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r76.html)  
The indication of the name and address of the inventor is to be distinguished
from other declarations of or concerning the inventor or the invention, etc.
The latter are considered "special requirements" (refer to paragraphs 5.001 to
5.005) which may be complied with after entry into the national phase.

USE OF NATIONAL FORMS

4.032. Is the use of national forms mandatory for entry into the national
phase?

[Rule 49.4,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49.html) [Rule
76.5](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r76.html)  
No applicant may be required to use a national form to perform the acts
prescribed for entry into the national phase. Several Offices do, however,
keep such forms at the disposal of applicants, and their use is recommended.
The National Chapters contain information about existing forms, and the
annexes to the Chapters reproduce samples of them.

##  CHAPTER 5: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS TO BE COMPLIED WITH IN CONNECTION WITH THE
NATIONAL PHASE

GENERAL

5.001. What is the meaning of “special requirements” and when do they have to
be complied with?

[Article 27(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a27.html),
[Article 27(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a27.html),
[Article 27(6)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a27.html),
[Article 27(7)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a27.html),  [Rule
51 _bis_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51bis.html),  [Rule
76.5](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r76.html)  
No designated Office is allowed to require, before the expiration of the
applicable time limit for entering the national phase, the performance of acts
other than those referred to in Article 22(1), namely the payment of the
national fee, the furnishing of a translation (if prescribed) and, in
exceptional cases, the furnishing of a copy of the international application,
and the indication of the name and address of the inventor (refer to paragraph
4.001). All other requirements of the national law, to the extent that they
are admitted under Article 27, are referred to in this publication as "special
requirements." They may still be complied with after entry into the national
phase. Rule 51 _bis_ indicates the most common of those requirements and
provides that the applicant must be given an opportunity to comply with any
such special requirement after the start of the national phase. This
opportunity is usually given either by sending an invitation to comply with a
certain special requirement within a time limit indicated in the invitation or
by providing in the national law for a certain time limit within which the
applicant must, without invitation, comply with the requirement.

5.002

For each designated Office, the National Chapter (Summary) lists the special
requirements, if any, which must be complied with in connection with entry
into the national phase, and indicates whether the Office concerned will
invite the applicant to comply or, if there is no invitation, what the time
limit is for such compliance. It is highly recommended that any special
requirement indicated in the National Chapter (Summary) be complied with at
the time of performing the acts for entry into the national phase, because
this is more economical and avoids the risk of forgetting to comply with the
requirement later. The most common of the special requirements are explained
in general terms in the following paragraphs. Details are given in each
National Chapter (Summary).

CERTAIN DECLARATIONS CONCERNING THE INVENTOR, ASSIGNMENTS, ETC.

5.003. What must be done to prove inventorship, the right to file the
application or the like?

[Rule 51 _bis_.1(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51bis.html)
[Rule 51 _bis_.2,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51bis.html) [Rule
51 _bis_.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51bis.html) [Rule
76.5](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r76.html)  
Depending on national law and practice, some designated Offices require the
applicant to furnish:

(i) any document relating to the identity of the inventor;

(ii) any document relating to the applicant’s entitlement to apply for or be
granted a patent;

(iii) any document containing proof of the applicant’s entitlement to claim
priority of an earlier application where the applicant is not the applicant
who filed the earlier application or where the applicant’s name has changed
since the date on which the earlier application was filed;

(iv) any document containing an oath or declaration of inventorship;

(v) any evidence concerning non-prejudicial disclosures or exceptions to lack
of novelty, such as disclosures resulting from abuse, disclosures at certain
exhibitions and disclosures by the applicant during a certain period of time.

However, in general, a document referred to above will not be required if the
applicant has furnished a declaration under Rule 4.17 (refer to paragraph
5.005). What may be required by a particular designated Office is indicated in
the National Chapters (Summary). The annexes to the National Chapters contain
forms that must or may be used for this purpose. Documents (other than
declarations under Rule 4.17) required by designated Offices, must always be
sent by the applicant to the designated Office concerned and should not be
sent to the International Bureau, which, if it does receive them, keeps them
in its files but does not transmit them to the designated Offices.

5.004. When must requirements relating to matters such as inventorship, right
to file, etc. be complied with?

In general, such requirements must be complied with within a time limit of at
least two months from the date of an invitation that the designated Office
must send to the applicant, in case the requirement concerned was not already
complied with within the time limit for entering the national phase (refer to
paragraphs 3.001 and 3.002). Certain designated Offices have, however,
informed the International Bureau that the time limit of two months was not
compatible with the applicable national law (refer to the relevant National
Chapters (Summary)).

5.005. What can be done in the international phase to simplify the processing
of international applications in the national phase?

[Rule 4.17,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule 51
_bis_.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51bis.html)  
The applicant may include in Box No. VIII of the request form one or more of
the following declarations under Rule 4.17:

[Rule 4.17(i),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule 51
_bis_.1(a)(i)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51bis.html)  
— Box No. VIII(i): declaration as to the identity of the inventor (noting that
such declaration need not be made in Box No. VIII(i) if the name and address
of the inventor are indicated in the request, that is, usually in Boxes No. II
and/or III);

[Rule 4.17(ii),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule 51
_bis_.1(a)(ii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51bis.html)  
— Box No. VIII(ii): declaration as to the applicant’s entitlement, as at the
international filing date, to apply for and be granted a patent;

[Rule 4.17(iii),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule 51
_bis_.1(a)(iii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51bis.html)  
— Box No. VIII(iii): declaration as to the applicant’s entitlement, as at the
international filing date, to claim priority of the earlier application;

[Rule 4.17(iv),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule 51
_bis_.1(a)(iv)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51bis.html)  
— Box No. VIII(iv): declaration of inventorship (only for the purposes of the
United States of America), noting that that declaration must be signed;

[Rule 4.17(v),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r4.html) [Rule 51
_bis_.1(a)(v)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51bis.html)  
— Box No. VIII(v): declaration as to non-prejudicial disclosures or exceptions
to lack of novelty.

Where the request contains a declaration complying with Rule 4.17(i) to (iv),
a designated Office may not (except if it has informed the International
Bureau to the contrary) require any document or evidence relating to the
subject matter of that declaration (refer to paragraph 5.003) unless it
reasonably doubts the veracity of the declaration concerned. In the case of a
declaration as to non-prejudicial disclosures or exceptions to lack of novelty
made under Rule 4.17(v), the designated Offices concerned are always entitled
to require further documents of evidence. For further details, refer to
International Phase, paragraphs [5.074](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-
doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctip&doc-lang=en&doc-type=guide#_5.074) to
[5.080](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctip&doc-
lang=en&doc-type=guide#_5.080).

REPRESENTATION

5.006. Must the applicant be represented by an agent for the national phase?

[Article 27(7)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a27.html),  [Rule
51 _bis_.1(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51bis.html) [Rule
76.5](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r76.html)  
Most designated Offices require non-resident applicants to be represented by
an agent; others require non-resident applicants to have an address for
service in the country. The National Chapters (Summary) indicate whether an
agent must be appointed or whether an address for service is required.

5.007. When and how must the agent be appointed?

[Article 27(7)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a27.html),  [Rule
51 _bis_.1(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51bis.html) [Rule
76.5](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r76.html)  
It is highly recommended that an agent be appointed for the performance of the
acts for entry into the national phase. An address for service, where
required, should also be indicated at the time of performing those acts. As
for any obligation to be represented by an agent or to have an address for
service, it applies only once the national phase has started. The appointment
of an agent must be made in a power of attorney signed by the applicant(s).
Model powers of attorney are contained in the annexes to the National Chapters
and on the website at <https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/forms/pa/index.htm>.

5.008. Who may act as an agent for the national phase?

[Article 27(7)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a27.html)  
The reply to this question is given for each designated Office in the National
Chapter (Summary). Lists with names and addresses of agents may be obtained
from the designated Offices, but not from the International Bureau.

PRIORITY DOCUMENT: COPY AND TRANSLATION

5.009. When must a copy of the priority document be furnished for the national
phase?

[Rule 17.2(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r17.html)  
The priority document must be submitted during the international phase to the
receiving Office or to the International Bureau, and the International Bureau
makes it available to designated Offices (for details, refer to International
Phase, paragraph [5.070](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=pctip&doc-lang=en&doc-type=guide#_5.070)). Where the priority document
has been submitted within the time limit during the international phase to the
receiving Office or to the International Bureau, no designated Office may
require an original priority document (that is, an original certified copy of
the earlier application) from the applicant. What may be required, however, is
a copy of the priority document, that is, a simple photocopy of the original
priority document (consisting of a copy of both the earlier application and
the certificate of its filing date), together with a translation of the
priority document (refer to paragraph 5.010).

5.010. When must a translation of the priority document be furnished for the
national phase?

[Rule 17.2(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r17.html) [Rule 51
_bis_.1(e),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51bis.html) [Rule
76.4,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r76.html) [Rule 82
_ter_.1(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r82ter.html)  
A designated Office may require the applicant to furnish a translation of the
priority document only where the validity of the priority claim is relevant to
the determination of whether the invention concerned is patentable; and for
the determination of whether an element or part that has been incorporated by
reference, pursuant to Rules 4.18 and 20.6, is completely contained in the
priority document concerned. In addition, where a part of the description,
claims or drawings was incorporated by reference, the designated Office may
also require the applicant to furnish an indication as to where the given part
is contained in the translation of the priority document.

##  CHAPTER 6: MISCELLANEOUS QUESTIONS CONCERNING THE NATIONAL PHASE

SUBSTANTIVE CONDITIONS OF PATENTABILITY

6.001. What is the effect of the PCT on the substantive conditions of
patentability applied in the national phase?

[Article 27(5)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a27.html),
[Article 27(6)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a27.html),
[Article 33(5)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a33.html)  
The PCT leaves each Contracting State free to determine substantive conditions
of patentability. This is particularly true for what constitutes "prior art."
However, since the requirements of prior art as defined in the PCT and its
Regulations for the purposes of the international phase are generally as
strict as, or stricter than, those defined in any national law, the chances of
unpleasant surprises by way of previously uncited prior art references being
raised during the national phase are substantially reduced. On the other hand,
the PCT does not prevent any national law from requiring the applicant to
furnish, in the national phase, evidence in respect of any substantive
condition of patentability in that law.

CORRECTION OF TRANSLATION

6.002. May the applicant correct errors in the translation of the
international application?

Where the translation of the international application contains an error, that
error may be rectified, during the national phase, before all designated
Offices.

6.003

[Article 46](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a46.html)  
The scope of the translation of the international application may not,
however, exceed the scope of the international application in its original
language. Where, for example, as a result of incorrect translation, the scope
of the international application in the language of the translation is
narrower than in its original language, that scope may be broadened but must
not exceed the original scope. Where the scope of the translation is broader
than that of the international application in its original language, the
designated Office or any other competent authority of the designated State may
limit accordingly the scope of the international application or of a patent
resulting from it.

RESTORATION OF THE RIGHT OF PRIORITY

6.004. What are the effects of a decision by a receiving Office to restore the
right of priority on designated Offices?

[Rule 49 _ter_.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49ter.html)  
A decision by a receiving Office to restore a right of priority based on the
criterion of “due care” will, as a general rule, be effective in all
designated Offices, unless the designated Office submitted a notification of
incompatibility under Rule 49 _ter_.1(g) (refer to paragraph 6.005). A
decision by a receiving Office to restore a right of priority based on the
criterion of “unintentionality” will be effective only in those designated
States the applicable laws of which provided for restoration of the right of
priority based on that criterion or on a criterion which, from the viewpoint
of applicants, is more favorable than that criterion. A decision by a
receiving Office to refuse to restore the right of priority can always be
reviewed by a designated Office (refer to paragraph 6.006), unless it has
submitted a notification of incompatibility under Rule 49 _ter_.1(g), such
that restoration is not possible in that jurisdiction.

In addition, a review of a positive decision may be made by a designated
Office in the limited situation where it reasonably doubts that one of the
substantive requirements for restoration was complied with. No review is
permitted on purely formal grounds, such as, for example, the ground that the
relevant fee in the international phase might not have been paid.

6.005. What are the consequences of a decision by a receiving Office to
restore the right of priority on a designated Office which has made a
notification of incompatibility?

[Rule 49 _ter_.1(g)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49ter.html)  
Several designated Offices have notified the International Bureau under Rule
49 _ter_.1(g) of the incompatibility of Rule 49 _ter_.1(a) to (d) with the
national law applied by that Office. As a result, these designated Offices
will not be obliged to give effect to the decision by a receiving Office to
restore the right of priority for the purposes of the procedure before that
designated Office as outlined above. A list of Offices which have notified the
International Bureau of incompatibility of their national law with Rule 49
_ter_.1 can be found on WIPO’s website at
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html#R_49ter_1_g>.

6.006. Can a request to restore the right of priority also be filed directly
with a designated Office?

[Rule 49 _ter_.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49ter.html)  
A request to restore the right of priority can also be filed directly with a
designated Office once the applicant has entered the national phase before
that Office. The applicant may wish to rely on this opportunity if he/she
could not file a request to restore the right of priority with the receiving
Office because of the operation of Rule 26 _bis_.3(j), or obtain the
restoration of the priority right on the desired criterion because of the
criterion for restoration applied by the receiving Office, or because the
receiving Office has refused the request to restore filed with it (refer to
Rule 49 _ter_.1(e)). Several designated Offices have, however, notified the
International Bureau under Rule 49 _ter_.2(h) of the incompatibility of Rule
49 _ter_.2(a) to (g) with the national law applied by that Office. As a
result, these designated Offices will not accept a request to restore the
right of priority filed with it. A list of Offices which have notified the
International Bureau of the incompatibility of their national law with Rule 49
_ter_.2 can be found on WIPO’s website at
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html#R_49ter_2_h>.

6.007. What is the applicable time limit to request restoration of the right
of priority with a designated Office?

[Rule 49 _ter_.2(b)(i),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49ter.html)
[Rule 49 _ter_.2(f)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49ter.html)  
The time limit for complying with the requirements for requesting the
restoration of the right of priority is at least one month from the applicable
time limit under Article 22 for entering the national phase, though designated
Offices are free to apply longer time limits where permitted under their
national law (Rule 49 _ter_.2(f)). Where the applicant makes an express
request for entry into the national phase under Article 23(2), the time limit
of one month starts from the date of receipt of that request by the designated
Office. If the designated Office requires the applicant to provide a
declaration or evidence in support of the statement of reasons for failure to
timely file the international application, it allows the applicant a
reasonable time under the circumstances to furnish such documents.

6.008. How should a request for the restoration of the right of priority be
filed with the designated Office?

[Rule 49 _ter_.2(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49ter.html)
[Rule 49 _ter_.2(f)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49ter.html)  
The request to restore the right of priority must be submitted by way of a
letter to the designated Office.

For the request to restore the right of priority to be successful, the
following requirements must be met:

— the international application must contain a priority claim to an earlier
application and the international application must have been filed within two
months from the expiration of the priority period. If the international
application did not contain the relevant priority claim at the time of filing,
such a claim must have been added, pursuant to Rule 26 _bis_.1(a) (refer to
International Phase, paragraphs [6.038](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-
doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctip&doc-lang=en&doc-type=guide#_6.038) to
[6.040](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctip&doc-
lang=en&doc-type=guide#_6.040)), before the expiration of the time limit under
Rule 26 _bis_.3(e) (Rule 26 _bis_.3(c));

— the request to restore should state the reasons for the failure to file the
international application within the priority period (refer to paragraph
6.010). The statement of reasons should be drafted in light of the restoration
criterion which the applicant seeks to satisfy, from among those applied by
the Office (refer to paragraph 6.009);

— the request must be accompanied by any fee for requesting restoration
required by the designated Office (refer to National Chapter, Annex I for
whether a particular designated Office requires such a fee);

— if required by the designated Office and subject to an invitation by the
Office, a declaration or other evidence in support of the statement of reasons
must be furnished (Rule 49 _ter_.2(c)) (for the applicable time limit, refer
to paragraph 6.007).

6.009. What are the criteria for restoration applied by the designated Office?

[Rule 49 _ter_.2(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49ter.html)
[Rule 49 _ter_.2(f)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49ter.html)  
There are generally two criteria for restoration: either the failure to file
the international application within the priority period occurred in spite of
due care required by the circumstances having been taken or the failure to
file the international application within the priority period was
unintentional. All designated Offices to which these Rules are applicable
(refer to paragraph 6.006) must apply at least one of these criteria, or else
one more favorable from the point of view of the applicant. If a designated
Office wishes, it may apply both criteria for restoration.

6.010. What needs to be included in the statement of reasons for the request
to restore the right of priority?

[Rule 49 _ter_.2(b)(ii)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49ter.html)  
The statement should indicate the reasons for the failure to file the
international application within the priority period. It should contain all
the relevant facts and circumstances which would allow the designated Office
to determine that the failure to file the international application within the
priority period occurred in spite of due care required by the circumstances
having been taken or was unintentional.

6.011. Will there be an opportunity to convince the designated Office that it
should not refuse the request?

[Rule 49 _ter_.2(e)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49ter.html)  
If the designated Office intends to refuse the request for the restoration of
the priority claim, it is required to notify the applicant of its intention.
The applicant must be given an opportunity to make observations on the
intended refusal within a reasonable time limit, specified in the notification
of intended refusal. Note that this notification may in practice be sent to
the applicant together with an invitation to file a declaration or other
evidence.

INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE OF MISSING OR CORRECT ELEMENTS OR PARTS

6.012. Will pages which have been accepted as incorporated by reference by the
receiving Office be accepted by the designated or elected Office?

[Rule 82 _ter_.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r82ter.html)  
Designated and elected Offices may, to a limited extent, review decisions by
receiving Offices which have allowed incorporation by reference (Rule 82
_ter_.1(b)). If the designated or elected Office finds that the applicant did
not comply with its obligation to furnish or arrange for the furnishing of a
priority document; the statement of incorporation was missing or not submitted
with the request; no written notice confirming incorporation by reference was
submitted; no required translation furnished; or the element or part in
question was not completely contained in the priority document, the designated
or elected Office may treat the international application as if the
international filing date had been accorded on the basis of the date on which
the sheets containing the missing or correct element or part were submitted,
but only after having given the applicant the opportunity to make observations
on this outcome, in which case the applicant may request that the missing part
or the correct element or part which had been furnished be disregarded, in
accordance with Rule 82 _ter_.1(d). Similarly, those designated Offices which
have submitted notifications of incompatibility under Rule 20.8(b) or
20.8(b-_bis_) (refer to International Phase, paragraph
[6.027](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctip&doc-
lang=en&doc-type=guide#_6.027)) may, pursuant to Rule 20.8(c), also treat the
international application as if the international filing date had been
accorded without the benefit of the incorporation by reference but also only
after having given the applicant the opportunity to make observations on this
outcome, in which case the applicant may request that the missing part or the
correct element or part which had been furnished be disregarded.

AMENDMENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL APPLICATION FOR THE NATIONAL PHASE

6.013. May the applicant amend the international application for the national
phase?

[Article 19](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a19.html),  [Article
28](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a28.html),  [Article
34(2)(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a34.html),  [Article
41](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a41.html),  [Rule
46](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r46.html),  [Rule
52.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r52.html) [Rule
66.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r66.html) [Rule
78](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r78.html)  
The PCT guarantees the applicant an opportunity to amend the claims, the
description and the drawings before any designated Office. Although the
applicant has already had the opportunity to amend the claims in the
international phase, he/she may wish to make further amendments, which may be
different for the purposes of the various designated Offices, in the national
phase, or he/she may wish to amend also the description or the drawings (which
is not possible during the international phase unless the applicant has made a
demand for international preliminary examination). All designated and elected
Offices are obliged to permit such amendments for at least one month from the
time when the applicant enters the national phase. That minimum time limit may
be later in certain exceptional circumstances specified in Rules 52.1 and 78.
In any event, most designated and elected Offices permit amendments at any
time during the national examination procedure (if applicable). In certain
designated or elected Offices, where examination must be specifically
requested, the request for making amendments may only be made after the
applicant has entered the national phase. The National Chapters give
additional indications in this respect.

6.014. May the applicant correct obvious mistakes in the international
application for the national phase?

[Rule 91.3(f)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r91.html)  
Normally, any obvious mistake in the description, claims and drawings may be
corrected before the designated Office. The correction can be presented as an
amendment (refer to paragraph 6.013), provided that the scope of the
international application as originally filed is not thereby broadened.

6.015. What are the effects of the authorization of an obvious mistake on the
designated and elected Offices?

[Rule 91.3(e),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r91.html) [Rule
91.3(f)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r91.html)  
Generally, designated and elected Offices must process the international
application in the national phase “as rectified”, unless that designated or
elected Office has already started the processing or examination of the
international application before the date on which that Office is notified
under Rule 91.3(a) by the International Bureau of the authorization of the
rectification concerned. Otherwise, a designated or elected Office may
disregard a rectification that was authorized under Rule 91.1 if it finds that
it would not have authorized the rectification if it had been the competent
authority (refer to Rule 91.3(f)). The designated Office may, however, only
disregard any rectification that was authorized during the international
phase, if it has given the applicant an opportunity to make observations,
within a reasonable time limit, on the Office’s intention to disregard the
rectification.

6.016

Where the authorization of rectification has been refused during the
international phase and the applicant has made a request for publication under
Rule 91.3(d) (refer to the International Phase, paragraph
[11.043](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctip&doc-
lang=en&doc-type=guide#_11.043)), he/she should repeat the request for
rectification before each designated Office in a language admitted by that
Office.

6.017

The conditions for allowing the rectification of an obvious mistake depend on
the national law and practice applied by the designated Offices. Applicants
are advised to inquire at the Offices concerned regarding the conditions
applicable.

REVIEW IN THE NATIONAL PHASE OF CERTAIN DECISIONS MADE DURING THE
INTERNATIONAL PHASE

6.018. In which case may a request for review be made?

[Article 25](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a25.html)  
A review by the designated Office of the following decisions may be requested:

(i) the receiving Office has refused to accord an international filing date to
the international application because of certain defects in that application;

(ii) the receiving Office has declared that the international application is
considered withdrawn because of certain defects in that application or because
of non-payment of the prescribed fees;

(iii) the International Bureau has made a finding that the international
application is considered withdrawn because it has not received the record
copy within the prescribed time limit.

[Article 25(2)(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a25.html)  
Thus, those decisions that may have been made during the international phase
and affect the international application as such are subject to review by each
designated Office. Review by the designated Office consists of an examination
to ascertain whether the receiving Office’s refusal or declaration or the
International Bureau’s finding was the result of an error or omission on the
part of the authority concerned.

6.019. How may the right to request a review be exercised and when?

In any of the three cases referred to in paragraph 6.018, the applicant must,
if he/she wants the decision to be reviewed,

[Article 25(1)(b)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a25.html)  
(i) request the International Bureau, under Article 25, to send to each
designated Office specified by him/her a copy of any relevant document in the
file; this request must be in English or French;

[Article 25(2)(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a25.html),
[Rule 51.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51.html)  
(ii) request each of those designated Offices, separately, to review the
decision affecting his/her international application, giving the facts and
evidence indicating an error or omission on the part of the receiving Office
or of the International Bureau, as the case may be; in addition, and at the
same time (refer to paragraph 6.020), the applicant must pay to the said
designated Office the national fee for entry into the national phase, and
furnish a translation of the international application where required; for
details about fees and required translations, refer to the National Chapters
(Summary); the request to the designated Office must be in a language accepted
by that Office; where the review requested concerns the refusal to accord an
international filing date, the applicant must attach to the request a copy of
the notice of the refusal.

6.020

[Rule 51.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51.html) [Rule
51.3](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51.html)  
Both the request to the International Bureau and the request to any designated
Office together with any required translation and fee must reach the authority
concerned within two months from the date of the notification informing the
applicant of the unfavorable decision.

6.021. What may be the result of a review by the designated Office?

[Article 24(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a24.html),
[Article 25(2)(a)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a25.html),
[Article 48(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a48.html)  
If the applicant has complied with the requirements outlined in the preceding
paragraphs, the designated Office will make a finding on whether the decision
was justified and, if it finds that it was the result of an error or omission,
it must treat the international application as if that error or omission had
not occurred, and maintain the effect of the international application as a
regular national application as of the international filing date. If it finds
that the decision was not the result of an error or omission, it may
nevertheless maintain the effect of the international application under
Article 24(2). The latter may be the case where the decision was the result of
failure to meet a prescribed time limit (such as for the furnishing of
corrections or the payment of fees); in such a case, the applicant is advised
to request the designated Office not only to review the decision but also to
excuse the delay. Details on the excusing of delays in meeting time limits are
given in the following paragraphs.

EXCUSING OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

6.022. Can a delay in meeting a time limit be excused?

[Article 48(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a48.html),  [Rule
82 _bis_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r82bis.html)  
A delay in meeting a time limit which has resulted in the international
application being considered withdrawn, during either the international phase
or the national phase, may be excused under certain circumstances. The
excusing of a delay is understood as any decision which has the effect of the
international application being treated as if the time limit had not been
exceeded. The excusing of a delay cannot be requested during the international
phase, however. It may be granted only in the national phase (for delays in
both the international phase and the national phase) by each designated Office
individually, and only as far as that Office is concerned. The conditions laid
down by the national law of each designated Office are paramount in
determining whether a delay must be or may be excused. All national provisions
related to the excusing of delays must be applied to international
applications in the same way and under the same conditions as they are to
national applications. Examples of such provisions are those that allow for
the reinstatement of rights, restoration, _restitutio in integrum_ , revival
of abandoned applications, further processing, continuation of proceedings,
and so on.

6.023. In respect of which time limits may delays be excused?

[Rule 82 _bis_.1](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r82bis.html)  
The time limits concerned are all those fixed in the PCT (Treaty and
Regulations) and also any time limit fixed by a PCT authority and any time
limit either fixed by, or in the national law applicable by, the designated
Office for the performance of any act by the applicant before that Office,
including the time limit for entering the national phase.

6.024. What must be done by an applicant who has exceeded the time limit for
entering the national phase and/or who failed to perform the acts referred to
in Article 22 or 39(1) within the applicable time limit?

[Article 48(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a48.html),  [Rule
49.6,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49.html) [Rule 82
_bis_.2](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r82bis.html)  
Contracting States are required under Rule 49.6 to provide for the possibility
to reinstate the rights of the applicant with respect to an international
application where the applicant failed to comply with the requirements of
Article 22 or 39(1). Details of this possibility are given in Rule 49.6. Some
Contracting States have notified the International Bureau, under Rule 49.6(f),
of the incompatibility of this Rule with their national laws. A table of such
notifications is available on WIPO’s website at:
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html#R_49_6_f>.
Once a State has taken the necessary actions to amend its national law,
notification of this will be published in the Official Notices (PCT Gazette)
and the table will be updated. Moreover, even if a Contracting State has made
a notification under Rule 49.6(f), the applicant is advised to check with the
Office concerned whether a system to reinstate rights with respect to an
application exists or not. Some States have made notifications only because
their national laws already contain provisions for the reinstatement of rights
but these provisions are not in line with the contents of Rule 49.6. Some
States therefore have no procedure in place to reinstate rights with respect
to an application whereas others do have such systems, either more or less
favorable to the applicant than Rule 49.6.

6.025. What must be done by the applicant who has exceeded a time limit?

[Article 48(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a48.html),  [Rule
51.1,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51.html) [Rule
51.3](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r51.html)  
The applicant must perform all acts required for entry into the national phase
(refer to paragraphs 4.001 to 4.031). The applicant must at the same time
request the designated Office to excuse the delay and to maintain the effect
of the international application before it. The procedure depends on the
national requirements applicable, including any time limit for filing a
request to excuse the delay. Those requirements are indicated in the National
Chapter. Applicants can usually be sure of meeting any such time limit when
the request to excuse is made and the acts for entering the national phase are
performed either within two months from the date of the notification of the
unfavorable decision or within two months from the date on which the time
limit (such as the time limit for entering the national phase) expired.

6.026

[Article 24(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a24.html),
[Article 48(2)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a48.html)  
The request for a delay to be excused should be made in addition to, and
together with, any request for the review of a decision made by the receiving
Office declaring the international application withdrawn for failure to comply
with any requirement within a certain time limit (refer to paragraphs 6.018 to
6.021). Should the designated Office confirm the decision made by the
receiving Office, it may nevertheless maintain the effect of the international
application because, under its national law, the delay may be excused in
accordance with provisions for the reinstatement of rights, the revival of an
abandoned application, the continuation of proceedings or the like. It should
be noted that, as outlined in the preceding paragraphs, the applicant must,
before each Office concerned, fulfill all the conditions in the applicable
national law, including the making of the request for a delay to be excused
within any time limit prescribed by the national law.

6.027. Must the late arrival of a document caused by irregularities in the
mail service be excused?

[Article 48(1)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/articles/a48.html),  [Rule
82](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r82.html)  
If a time limit fixed in the Treaty or the Regulations is exceeded because of
the delayed arrival of a document or letter, it must be excused if it was
caused by a delay in the mail or by an interruption of the mail service,
provided that sufficient evidence is produced and the mailing was by mail
registered with the postal authorities or with any delivery service notified
by the designated Office to the International Bureau. Similarly, and under the
same conditions, a new copy of a document or letter may be substituted for a
document or letter lost in the mail, provided that the replacement document or
letter is proved to be identical with the one lost. For details, refer to Rule
82.

RECTIFICATION OF ERRORS MADE BY THE RECEIVING OFFICE OR BY THE INTERNATIONAL
BUREAU

6.028. Which errors made by the receiving Office or the International Bureau
may be rectified?

[Rule 82 _ter_](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r82ter.html)  
If the receiving Office has made an error in according the international
filing date or if the priority claim in the request has been erroneously
considered by the receiving Office or the International Bureau not to have
been made, the designated Office must rectify the error if it is one that it
would have rectified in accordance with its national law or national practice
had it made the error itself.

6.029. What must be done to request rectification of such an error and when?

The applicant must request the designated Office to rectify the error and must
prove, to the satisfaction of that Office, that the international filing date
accorded by the receiving Office is incorrect owing to an error made by the
receiving Office, or that a priority claim has erroneously been considered not
to have been made by the receiving Office or the International Bureau. The
request should be made on entering the national phase.

ACTS TO BE PERFORMED DURING THE NATIONAL PHASE

6.030. What has to be done by the applicant once the national phase has
started?

The usual national procedure applies to international applications during the
national phase. What is said in the following text and in the National Chapter
(Summary) concerns only the acts that must be performed for entry into the
national phase and those acts that should be performed on entering the
national phase but may still be performed once it has started. What has to be
done thereafter-at least the main procedural steps-is outlined for each
designated Office in the relevant National Chapter (Summary). Applicants who
are not familiar with the patent procedure before a certain designated Office
should seek professional advice even where they are not obliged to be
represented before that Office by an agent.

CORRESPONDENCE WITH AND PAYMENTS TO DESIGNATED OFFICES

6.031. How should the international application be identified?

All documents sent and all payments of fees to a designated Office (and any
letter accompanying such documents or payments) should indicate - if already
known - the national serial number given to the international application by
the designated Office. Where the national number is not yet known (or not
given), the international application number should be indicated, preferably
together with the international filing date, the name of the applicant and the
title of the invention.

DEPOSIT OF BIOLOGICAL MATERIAL

6.032. What are the requirements regarding deposits of biological material?

Annex L contains details of designated Offices’ requirements regarding
deposits of biological material.

FURNISHING OF A NUCLEOTIDE AND/OR AMINO ACID SEQUENCE LISTING

6.033. What requirements need to be satisfied in relation to the furnishing of
a sequence listing?

[Annex C of the Administrative
Instructions](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/ai/annex_c.html), [Rule 13
_ter_.1(a),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13ter.html) [Rule 13
_ter_.1(b),](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13ter.html) [Rule 13
_ter_.3,](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r13ter.html) [Rule
49.5(a-_bis_)](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/rules/r49.html)  
No designated Office may require that the applicant furnish a nucleotide
and/or amino acid sequence listing in a format other than that complying with
the standard provided for in Annex C of the Administrative Instructions (WIPO
Standard ST.26). Where the international application contains a sequence
listing which does not comply with the standard and/or the language-dependent
free text is not in a language accepted by the Office, any designated Office
may require the applicant to furnish a sequence listing or a translation
complying with those requirements.

REQUEST FOR ACCELERATED EXAMINATION PROCEDURE

6.034. Is an accelerated examination procedure available to all applicants in
the national phase?

Where applicants have received a positive international preliminary report on
patentability (under Chapter I or II) in respect of their international
application, they may request fast-track examination before certain Offices
which participate in the Patent Prosecution Highway or offer accelerated
examination based on positive PCT work products from other Offices. For
further information refer to
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/filing/pct_pph.html>.

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Change(s) as of 15 September 2023 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference.
Mouse hover the text to consult previous value)

  
CHAPTER 1: HOW TO USE THE NATIONAL PHASE OF THE PCT APPLICANT’S GUIDE

1.005

The Office that is competent for each PCT Contracting State which may be
designated (or elected) is usually the national Office of the State concerned.
For States party to the ARIPO Harare Protocol, the Eurasian Patent Convention
or the European Patent Convention, the national phase procedure takes place
before the national Office and/or the regional Office concerned (the ARIPO
Office, the Eurasian Patent Office or the European Patent Office,
respectively), depending on the kind of designations (for national protection
and/or for a regional patent) which were made. (As to regional patent systems,
refer to International Phase, paragraphs
[4.022](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctip&doc-
lang=en&doc-type=guide#_4.022) to
[4.026](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctip&doc-
lang=en&doc-type=guide#_4.026)). For certain States party to the ARIPO Harare
Protocol or the European Patent Convention which have “closed the national
route, ” the national phase takes place exclusively before the ARIPO Office or
the European Patent Office, respectively (refer to paragraph 2.002 of this
part). Where the national law of a PCT Contracting State provides for patent
protection through the extension of a European patent, the national phase
takes place, in effect, before the European Patent Office (refer to
International Phase, paragraph [5.054](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-
doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctip&doc-lang=en&doc-type=guide#_5.054)). For all States
party to the OAPI Agreement the national phase takes place exclusively before
the OAPI Office (refer to International Phase, paragraphs
[4.022](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctip&doc-
lang=en&doc-type=guide#_4.022) to
[4.026](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctip&doc-
lang=en&doc-type=guide#_4.026) and paragraph 2.002 below). Annexes B contain
information as to the competent designated Offices for each Contracting State.

  

  
CHAPTER 2: ENTRY INTO THE NATIONAL PHASE (GENERAL)

2.006. How does the national phase start?

The national phase starts only if the applicant performs certain acts, either
before the expiration of a certain time limit or together with an express
request that it starts earlier. The applicant should not expect any
notification inviting him/her to perform those acts; it is the applicant’s own
responsibility to perform them in due time. The consequences of failure to do
so are fatal to the application in a number of designated States (refer to
paragraphs 4.003 and 4.004). It should be noted that the acts must be
performed in due time even if, for some reason, the international search
report and the written opinion of the International Searching Authority or the
international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter I or II of the PCT)
are not yet available. Details of the acts to be performed and the applicable
time limits are given in the following paragraphs.

  

  
CHAPTER 3: TIME LIMIT FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

3.001. What is the time limit for entering the national phase before a
designated Office?

Subject to what is said below, no designated Office may normally process or
examine the international application prior to the expiration of 30 months
from the priority date and any fees due to a designated Office and any
translation of the international application to be furnished to a designated
Office will have to be paid and furnished, respectively, only by the
expiration of that 30-month period (“priority date” means, where the
international application contains a priority claim, the filing date of the
application whose priority is claimed, and, where it does not contain such a
claim, the filing date of the international application; where the
international application contains two or more claims, “priority date” means
the filing date of the earliest application whose priority is claimed). In
respect of certain designated Offices, the applicable time limit is 20 months,
not 30 months because of the incompatibility, for the time being, of the
modified PCT provision (PCT Article 22(1)) with the relevant national law;
those Offices made a declaration of incompatibility which will remain in
effect until it is withdrawn by the respective Offices. Furthermore, certain
designated Offices have fixed time limits expiring even later than 30 months,
or 20 months, as the case may be. For regular updates on these applicable time
limits, refer to the relevant National Chapters; a cumulative table is also
available from WIPO’s website at
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/time_limits.html>.

  

  
CHAPTER 4: ACTS TO BE PERFORMED FOR ENTRY INTO THE NATIONAL PHASE

4.003. What are the consequences of failure to perform the acts required for
entry into the national phase?

The consequences where, on expiration of the applicable time limit for
entering the national phase, the required acts have not (all) been performed,
are that the international application loses the effect of a national
application and the procedure comes to an end in respect of each Office before
which they have not (all) been performed. Non-performance of the required acts
in respect of one Office does not alter the effect of the international
application before the other Offices. The automatic loss of the effect
relieves the applicant, where he/she decides not to pursue the international
application in the national phase, of the need to expressly withdraw the
international application or the designation or election of a certain State.

  

4.004

Where the applicant fails to perform the required acts in time, he/she may ask
the designated Office to maintain the effect of the international application
and to excuse the delay (refer to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027).

  

4.009. What is the language into which the international application must be
translated?

The language or languages prescribed by the designated Offices are given in
the National Chapter (Summary) relating to each Office. Where several
languages are given, the applicant may choose the language. It should be noted
that the language in which the translation of the international application is
furnished is usually also the language for the whole procedure before the
designated Office.

  

4.018. Must a reference to deposited biological material be translated?

Where such a reference is contained in the description, its translation is
part of the translation of the description. Where the reference is not
contained in the description but has been furnished on the optional sheet
(refer to the International Phase, paragraph
[11.075](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctip&doc-
lang=en&doc-type=guide#_11.075)) or in a later communication, a translation
must be furnished together with the translation of the international
application. Where the applicant fails to furnish the translation of the
reference, the designated Office may invite him/her to do so if it deems
necessary.

  

4.026. Must the translation be verified?

Verification of a translation means that the translation must be accompanied
by a statement signed by the applicant or by the translator, to the effect
that, to the best of the signatory’s knowledge, the translation is complete
and faithful. There are only a few designated Offices that require
verification. For each such Office, the National Chapter (Summary) contains an
indication to that effect and gives further details (including forms).

  

4.027. Must a copy of the international application be furnished by the
applicant to the designated Office for entry into the national phase?

Under normal circumstances, none of the designated Offices requires a copy of
the international application to be submitted by the applicant. There are only
a few that do require a copy where the communication by the International
Bureau of a copy of the international application under Article 20 has not, or
could not yet have, taken place (for details, refer to the National Chapters
(Summary)). That communication is effected by the International Bureau in
accordance with Rule 93 _bis_.1 but not prior to the international publication
of the international application. The applicant is notified accordingly by
means of Form PCT/IB/308 (First notice informing the applicant of the
communication of the international application (to designated Offices which do
not apply the 30 month time limit under Article 22(1)), and Form PCT/IB/308
(Second and supplementary notice informing the applicant of the communication
of the international application (to designated Offices which apply the 30
month time limit under Article 22(1)). When the applicant receives these
Forms, he/she does not have to furnish a copy of the international application
to any of the designated Offices, since the notices are accepted by all of
them as conclusive evidence that the communication has duly taken place on the
date specified in the notice.

  

4.028

On the other hand, where the applicant makes an express request for early
processing of the international application (refer to paragraphs 2.006 and
3.004) before the communication of the international application has taken
place, he/she must either furnish a copy of the international application, and
of any amendment filed under Article 19 with the International Bureau, at the
same time as making the express request for early processing to the designated
Office or request the International Bureau to transmit a copy of the
international application to the designated Office in accordance with Article
13(2)(b). The other acts prescribed for entering the national phase must
naturally also be performed.

  

4.029

The filing of a request constitutes an indication that the international
application is, in respect of each designated Office to which Article 43 or 44
applies, for the grant of every kind of protection which is available by way
of the designation of that State. As a result, if the applicant wishes the
international application to be treated in a designated Office as an
application not for the grant of a patent but for the grant of another kind of
protection available for the designated Office, or for the grant of more than
one kind of protection, the applicant is required to indicate a choice of
protection to the designated Office when performing the acts to enter the
national phase. Similarly and within the same time limits, the applicant is
required to make such indications also in cases where he/she wishes the
international application to be treated in a designated Office as an
application for a patent of addition, a certificate of addition, inventor's
certificate of addition, a utility certificate of addition or as a
continuation or a continuation-in-part. Although some designated Offices may
require the applicant to furnish any such indications at the time the acts
referred to in Article 22 or Article 39 are performed, many designated Offices
would allow the applicant to furnish such indications or, where applicable,
convert from one kind of protection to another, at a later time as provided by
national law.

  

4.030. In which case must the name and address of the inventor be indicated
for entry into the national phase?

If the name or address of the inventor or inventors has not been indicated in
the request at the time of filing, that information must be furnished to the
designated Offices at the time of entry into the national phase. If such
indications are required, most of the designated Offices will invite the
applicant to furnish them if he/she fails to do so on entering the national
phase, but some Offices will not. Details are given in the National Chapters
(Summary).

  

  
CHAPTER 5: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS TO BE COMPLIED WITH IN CONNECTION WITH THE
NATIONAL PHASE

5.002

For each designated Office, the National Chapter (Summary) lists the special
requirements, if any, which must be complied with in connection with entry
into the national phase, and indicates whether the Office concerned will
invite the applicant to comply or, if there is no invitation, what the time
limit is for such compliance. It is highly recommended that any special
requirement indicated in the National Chapter (Summary) be complied with at
the time of performing the acts for entry into the national phase, because
this is more economical and avoids the risk of forgetting to comply with the
requirement later. The most common of the special requirements are explained
in general terms in the following paragraphs. Details are given in each
National Chapter (Summary).

  

  
CHAPTER 6: MISCELLANEOUS QUESTIONS CONCERNING THE NATIONAL PHASE

6.006. Can a request to restore the right of priority also be filed directly
with a designated Office?

A request to restore the right of priority can also be filed directly with a
designated Office once the applicant has entered the national phase before
that Office. The applicant may wish to rely on this opportunity if he/she
could not file a request to restore the right of priority with the receiving
Office because of the operation of Rule 26 _bis_.3(j), or obtain the
restoration of the priority right on the desired criterion because of the
criterion for restoration applied by the receiving Office, or because the
receiving Office has refused the request to restore filed with it (refer to
Rule 49 _ter_.1(e)). Several designated Offices have, however, notified the
International Bureau under Rule 49 _ter_.2(h) of the incompatibility of Rule
49 _ter_.2(a) to (g) with the national law applied by that Office. As a
result, these designated Offices will not accept a request to restore the
right of priority filed with it. A list of Offices which have notified the
International Bureau of the incompatibility of their national law with Rule 49
_ter_.2 can be found on WIPO’s website at
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html#R_49ter_2_h>.

  

6.013. May the applicant amend the international application for the national
phase?

The PCT guarantees the applicant an opportunity to amend the claims, the
description and the drawings before any designated Office. Although the
applicant has already had the opportunity to amend the claims in the
international phase, he/she may wish to make further amendments, which may be
different for the purposes of the various designated Offices, in the national
phase, or he/she may wish to amend also the description or the drawings (which
is not possible during the international phase unless the applicant has made a
demand for international preliminary examination). All designated and elected
Offices are obliged to permit such amendments for at least one month from the
time when the applicant enters the national phase. That minimum time limit may
be later in certain exceptional circumstances specified in Rules 52.1 and 78.
In any event, most designated and elected Offices permit amendments at any
time during the national examination procedure (if applicable). In certain
designated or elected Offices, where examination must be specifically
requested, the request for making amendments may only be made after the
applicant has entered the national phase. The National Chapters give
additional indications in this respect.

  

6.016

Where the authorization of rectification has been refused during the
international phase and the applicant has made a request for publication under
Rule 91.3(d) (refer to the International Phase, paragraph
[11.043](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=pctip&doc-
lang=en&doc-type=guide#_11.043)), he/she should repeat the request for
rectification before each designated Office in a language admitted by that
Office.

  

6.019. How may the right to request a review be exercised and when?

In any of the three cases referred to in paragraph 6.018, the applicant must,
if he/she wants the decision to be reviewed,

(i) request the International Bureau, under Article 25, to send to each
designated Office specified by him/her a copy of any relevant document in the
file; this request must be in English or French;

(ii) request each of those designated Offices, separately, to review the
decision affecting his/her international application, giving the facts and
evidence indicating an error or omission on the part of the receiving Office
or of the International Bureau, as the case may be; in addition, and at the
same time (refer to paragraph 6.020), the applicant must pay to the said
designated Office the national fee for entry into the national phase, and
furnish a translation of the international application where required; for
details about fees and required translations, refer to the National Chapters
(Summary); the request to the designated Office must be in a language accepted
by that Office; where the review requested concerns the refusal to accord an
international filing date, the applicant must attach to the request a copy of
the notice of the refusal.

  

6.025. What must be done by the applicant who has exceeded a time limit?

The applicant must perform all acts required for entry into the national phase
(refer to paragraphs 4.001 to 4.031). The applicant must at the same time
request the designated Office to excuse the delay and to maintain the effect
of the international application before it. The procedure depends on the
national requirements applicable, including any time limit for filing a
request to excuse the delay. Those requirements are indicated in the National
Chapter. Applicants can usually be sure of meeting any such time limit when
the request to excuse is made and the acts for entering the national phase are
performed either within two months from the date of the notification of the
unfavorable decision or within two months from the date on which the time
limit (such as the time limit for entering the national phase) expired.

  

Close

Current version applicable from 15 Sep 2023 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

