####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
AL - Useful informationAL - International PhaseAL - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationAL - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeAL - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialAL - National PhaseAL - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseAL - The procedure in the national PhaseAL - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide AL - Albania  
General Directorate of Industrial Property (GDIP) (Albania)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **15 September 2023**

(published on 15 September 2023)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
From now on, you will find here a summary of changes to each new version of
the PCT Applicant's Guide, as well as the detailed list of these changes.
Moreover, you can now easily access the historical versions of the Guide.  
  
RO: Languages, Electronic filing, RO fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for AL - General Directorate of Industrial Property \(GDIP\) \(Albania\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: General Directorate of Industrial Property (GDIP) (Albania)

APL: Albanian Industrial Property Law No. 9947 dated 7 July 2008, as amended
by Law No. 17/2017 dated 16 February 2017

List of currencies used in this document:

ALL (Albanian lek), CHF (Swiss franc)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=AL).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Albania

Two-letter code:

[AL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AL&doc-lang=EN)

Albania - General Directorate of Industrial Property (GDIP) (Albania)

Name of Office:

General Directorate of Industrial Property (GDIP) (Albania)

Location:

Bulevardi “Zhan D’Ark”  
Prona Nr. 33  
Shtëpia e Ushtarakëve  
Tirana  
Albania

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(355-42) 234 412

E-mail:

mailinf@dppm.gov.al

Website:

<http://www.dppm.gov.al>

Facsimile:

(355-42) 234 412

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes, within one month from the date of the transmission

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes, provided that the delivery service is:  
DHL  
TNT

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[AL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AL&doc-lang=EN)

Albania - General Directorate of Industrial Property (GDIP) (Albania)

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: AL

European patent: EP

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents,

Utility models

European:

Patents

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a national patent:

Any international application designating Albania which has been published
under PCT Article 21 shall give rise to the same rights as those which the
Albanian law provides for the compulsory national publication of unexamined
national applications as such. Provisional protection shall be effective as
from the date on which an Albanian translation of the claims of the
international application is published by the Office (Art. 27, Albanian
Industrial Property Law).

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a European patent and:

(1) the international application is published in one of the EPO official
languages: the applicant has the right to seek compensation reasonable in the
circumstances for any infringement, on condition that any national
requirements relating to the translation of the claims in the application have
been met (refer to Articles 67 and 153(4) EPC); or 1

(2) the international application is published in a language which is not an
EPO official language: the protection referred to in (1) does not become
effective until the EPO publishes the international application supplied to it
in one of its official languages (refer to Article 153(4) EPC and Article
82(1), Albanian Industrial Property Law).

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

For national protection

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If the data concerning the inventor are missing at the
expiration of the time limit under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)(a), the Office will
invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit of
three months from the date of the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

For a European patent

Refer to [Annex B(EP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=ep&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Albania

Language in which international applications may be filed:

Albanian,

English

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

The Office has not specifically notified the International Bureau of the
language that it accepts under PCT Rule 12.1(d).

Same as above

Language in which the request may be filed:

English

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

3

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
If the receiving Office does not accept international applications in
electronic form in such format, the international application will be
transmitted to the International Bureau as receiving Office (PCT Rule
19.4(a)(ii-_bis_)).

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to Official Notices (PCT
Gazette) dated 11 August 2022, pages 217 _et seq._

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

9,000 ALL

International filing fee:

1,330 CHF

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

15 CHF

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

200 CHF

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

300 CHF

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EP)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

3,000 ALL

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

7,000 ALL

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Albania or if the applicant is a legal entity
established under Albanian law

Yes, in all other cases

Who can act as agent?

Any patent agent registered to practice before the Office

Waiver of power of attorney:

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Refer to the Office

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Refer to the Office

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

None

— any additional indications:

At the time of filing (as part of the application)

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, relevant information on the
characteristics of the microorganism

Additional information

Deposits may also be made for the purposes of patent procedure before the
General Directorate of Industrial Property (GDIP) (Albania) with any
depositary institution specialized for that purpose.

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(3): 31 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Albanian

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22: Claims (if amended, as amended only)  
Under PCT Article 39(1): Claims (if amended, only as amended by the annexes to
the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees: 2

Patents

Filing fee

7,000 ALL

Utility models

Filing fee

6,000 ALL

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_): 3

Appointment of an agent if the applicant does not reside in Albania or is not
a legal entity established under Albanian law

Name of the inventor if this has not been indicated in the “Request” part of
the international application 4

If someone, other than the inventor, applies for a patent, the application
shall contain a declaration indicating the applicant’s right to the invention
4

Any document relating to any transfer or assignment of the right to the
application 4

Who can act as agent?

Any patent agent registered to practice before the Office

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

AL.01 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

AL.02 TRANSLATION OF PRIORITY DOCUMENT

APL Art. 18(2),  PCT Rule 51 _bis_ 1(e)  
The Office will invite the applicant to furnish a translation into Albanian of
the priority document but only if there is any doubt concerning the validity
of the priority claim and that document is in a language other than Albanian,
English, French, German, Italian, Russian or Spanish.

AL.03 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this chapter
is outlined in Annex AL.I.

AL.04 POWER OF ATTORNEY

APL Art. 195  
An agent must be appointed by filing a power of attorney. A model is given in
Annex AL.II.

AL.05 EXAMINATION

APL Art. 28  
The Office does not examine national patent applications as to substance. In
order for the granted patent to have legal effect, the applicant must, within
ten years of the date of entry into the national phase, file an examination
report prepared by an authorized examining authority.

AL.06 AMENDMENT AND CORRECTION OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41  
Until grant the applicant has the right, on his own initiative, to make
amendments and/or corrections to the application provided that the scope of
the application as filed is not broadened thereby.

AL.07 ANNUAL FEES

APL Art. 41  
The maintenance of the application is subject to the payment of annual fees
which are due each year on the anniversary of the international filing date,
starting from the first year after the grant of the patent, except where the
time limit under PCT Article 22 or 39(1) expires later, in which case the
latter time limit applies. Annual fees not paid within the applicable time
limit may still be paid within six months from the expiration of that time
limit against payment of an additional fee (refer to Annex AL.I). This time
period may be extended by two months by paying an additional fee to postpone
the renewal deadline. If the renewal fee has not been paid within the
applicable time limit, the Office, within two months from the end of the six-
month deadline, notifies the applicant that he/she may postpone the six-month
deadline by another two months. Notifications are made only to addresses in
Albania.

AL.08 CONVERSION OF PATENT APPLICATION INTO UTILITY MODEL APPLICATION

APL Art. 91  
Upon written request by the applicant, a patent application can be converted
into an application for utility model at any time up to the grant of the
patent.

AL.09 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51,  APL Art. 28(3),  APL Art. 193  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. If, upon review under PCT Article 25, the Office denies an
error or omission on the part of the receiving Office or the International
Bureau, an appeal against this decision may be lodged within three months from
the date of the decision with the Board of Appeals upon payment of a fee. A
decision of the Board of Appeals may be appealed within 30 days to the
Albanian courts.

AL.10

APL Art. 34  
Continued processing may be requested where the applicant has failed to
observe a time limit fixed by the Office and that failure results in a loss of
rights conferred by a patent application or a patent. The Office shall
authorize continued processing if the applicant files a request and performs
all the omitted acts within the prescribed time limit. Continued processing
may not be requested for the reinstatement of the right of priority.

AL.11

APL Art. 35  
Reinstatement of rights may be requested where the applicant, in spite of all
due care required by the circumstances, failed to observe a time limit set by
the Office, which results in a loss of rights. If the request is granted, the
legal consequences of the failure to observe the time limit shall be deemed
not to have ensued.

AL.12 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2),  PCT Rule 82 _bis_  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase. Where
during the international phase or before the Office the applicant has missed a
time limit for performing any act in relation to the international
application, such time limit may be extended by the Office upon request by the
applicant and where justified.

##  Annexes

Annex AL.I - Fees

Patents

Filing fee:

7,000 ALL

Fee for grant:

6,000 ALL

Annual fees:

— for the 2nd year:

5,000 ALL

— for the 3rd year:

6,000 ALL

— for the 4th year:

8,000 ALL

— for the 5th year:

10,000 ALL

— for the 6th year:

12,000 ALL

— for the 7th year:

14,000 ALL

— for the 8th year:

18,000 ALL

— for the 9th year:

20,000 ALL

— for the 10th year:

25,000 ALL

— for the 11th year:

27,000 ALL

— for the 12th year:

30,000 ALL

— for the 13th year:

35,000 ALL

— for the 14th year:

40,000 ALL

— for the 15th year:

45,000 ALL

— for the 16th year:

50,000 ALL

— for the 17th year:

55,000 ALL

— for the 18th year:

60,000 ALL

— for the 19th year:

65,000 ALL

— for the 20th year:

70,000 ALL

Fee for late payment of the annual fee:

— within six months from the expiration of the time limit:

50% of the applicable annual fee

— within two months from the end of the six-month deadline:

100% of the applicable annual fee

Fee for reinstatement of rights:

7,000 ALL

Fee for restoration of the right of priority:

7,000 ALL

Utility models

Filing fee:

6,000 ALL

Fee for grant:

6,000 ALL

How can payment of fees be effected?

All fees must be paid in Albanian leks, in cash, by money order or check. All
payments must indicate the application number (national, if already known;
international, if the national number is not yet known), the name of the
applicant and the category of fee being paid. Any payment by money order or
check must be made to the account of the Office at the Banka Kombetare
Tregtare.

Beneficiary’s name: Drejtoria e Përgjithshme e Pronësisë Industriale  
Bank name: Banka Kombetare Tregtare  
Bank Account No.: 515003225CLPBCLALLZQ  
Bank Address: Shkolla Baletit, Tirana, Albania  
BIC/SWIFT code: NCBAALTXXXX

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex AL.II - Power of
attorney](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_al.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a For further details on the national law relating to the EPC refer to
<http://www.epo.org/patents/law/legal-texts/national-law-epc.html> in
particular, “Rights conferred by a European patent application after
publication pursuant to Article 93 EPC (Article 67 EPC)” and “Translations for
obtaining provisional protection”.  
2 ^ a Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1).  
3 ^ a If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit of two months from the date of the invitation.  
4 ^ a b c This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration
has been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  

Change(s) as of 15 September 2023 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference.
Mouse hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

The Office has not specifically notified the International Bureau of the
language that it accepts under PCT Rule 12.1(d).

Same as above

  

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
If the receiving Office does not accept international applications in
electronic form in such format, the international application will be
transmitted to the International Bureau as receiving Office (PCT Rule
19.4(a)(ii-_bis_)).

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to Official Notices (PCT
Gazette) dated 11 August 2022, pages 217 _et seq._

  

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

200 CHF

  

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

300 CHF

  

Close

Current version applicable from 15 Sep 2023 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

