####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
AM - Useful informationAM - International PhaseAM - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationAM - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeAM - National PhaseAM - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseAM - The procedure in the national PhaseAM - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide AM - Armenia  
Intellectual Property Office of the Republic of Armenia

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **16 April 2024**

(published on 16 April 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
Annex C: Electronic filing: sub-question relating to pre-conversion format not
applicable  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 1 Jan 2024, 1 Mar 2024, 28 Mar 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for AM - Intellectual Property Office of the Republic of Armenia)).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Intellectual Property Office of the Republic of Armenia

PL: Law on Patents

List of currencies used in this document:

AMD (Armenian dram), USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=AM).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Article 64(5)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Armenia

Two-letter code:

[AM](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AM&doc-lang=EN)

Armenia - Intellectual Property Office of the Republic of Armenia

Name of Office:

Intellectual Property Office of the Republic of Armenia

Location:

Republic Square  
Government House 3  
0010 Yerevan  
Armenia

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(374-11) 59 75 34  
(374-11) 59 75 30

E-mail:

armpat@aipa.am

Website:

<http://aipo.am/en>

Facsimile:

(374-10) 54 34 67

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes, within one month from the date of the transmission

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

provided that the delivery service is:  
DHL  
Federal Express

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[AM](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AM&doc-lang=EN)

Armenia - Intellectual Property Office of the Republic of Armenia

,

[EA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EA&doc-lang=EN)

Eurasian Patent Organization - Eurasian Patent Office (EAPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Law on Patents, Article 58

Yes

Filing restrictions apply to:

Inventions made in Armenia

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: AM

Eurasian patent: EA

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents,

Short-term patents

Eurasian:

Patents

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

The fees should be paid to the Office by bank draft.

Account: No. 900005016200, code 20, Central Bank of the Republic of Armenia

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

For national protection

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If the data concerning the inventor are missing at the
expiry of the time limit under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite
the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit fixed in the
invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

No

For a Eurasian patent

Refer to [Annex B(EA)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=EA&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Armenia

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3).

English,

Russian

Language in which the request may be filed:

English,

Russian

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

3

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

No

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

No

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies the “unintentional” criterion to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EA&doc-lang=EN)

Eurasian Patent Organization - Eurasian Patent Office (EAPO)

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EA&doc-lang=EN)

Eurasian Patent Organization - Eurasian Patent Office (EAPO)

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

1,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

32,000 AMD

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EA)  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(RU)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

10,000 AMD

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

10,000 AMD

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Armenia

Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any person who is a resident of Armenia

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Not applicable

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Not applicable

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(3): 31 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes, the Office permits reinstatement of rights under the “unintentional"
criterion.

Fee for reinstatement

15,000 AMD

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s): 2

Armenian

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase: 2

Under PCT Article 22: Request, description, claims (if amended, as amended
only, together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any text matter of
drawings, abstract  
Under PCT Article 39(1): Request, description, claims, any text matter of
drawings, abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, only as amended by
the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

No

National fees:

Patents and short-term patents

Filing fee 2

20,000 AMD

Additional fee for each claim in excess of five 2

5,000 AMD

Fee for priority claims

per priority 10,000 AMD

Annual fees for the 2nd and the 3rd year

per year 20,000 AMD

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

National fees relating to obtaining and maintaining of patents and short-term
patents are reduced by 75% if the applicant is a physical person or a legal
entity with less than 25 employees, and by 50% for legal entities with 25 to
100 employees.

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in Armenia

Furnishing, where applicable, of a nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence
listing in electronic form

Who can act as agent?

Any person who is a resident of Armenia

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies the “unintentional” criterion to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

AM.01 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

AM.02 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex AM.I.

AM.03 EXAMINATION

The international application is subjected to formal examination and is
published six months after the date of national phase entry. A patent shall be
granted after substantive examination, if the international application meets
patentability requirements. A request for substantive examination can be filed
by the applicant or by any third party after the publication of the
international application within five years from the date of national phase
entry.

AM.04 POWER OF ATTORNEY

An agent must be appointed by filing a power of attorney if the applicant is
not resident in Armenia. A model is given in Annex AM.II.

AM.05 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  PL Art. 50  
Amendments and corrections to the description, claims and drawings may be made
within two months after the entry into national phase provided that the scope
of the subject matter of the application is not broadened thereby.

AM.06 ANNUAL FEES

The first annual fee must be paid simultaneously with the fee for grant of
patent or before the beginning of the second year of the patent term,
whichever occurs later. Payment can still be made, together with a 50%
surcharge for late payment, within six months from the due date. The amounts
of the annual fees are indicated in Annex AM.I.

AM.07 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2),  PCT Rule 82 _bis_ ,  PL Art. 36  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase. Delays
in meeting time limits during the examination stage may be excused within
three months from the mailing of the notification of the legal consequences of
failure to meet the time limit, and upon payment of the corresponding fee
indicated in Annex AM.I.

AM.08 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51,  PL Art. 57  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. In the case of disagreement with the final decision of the
Office, the applicant has the right, within three months from receipt of the
decision, to appeal to the Council of Appeals of the Office upon payment of an
appeal fee as indicated in Annex AM.I. If the applicant disagrees with the
decision of the Council of Appeals of the Office, he may, within six months
from receipt of the decision of the Council, appeal to the court.

AM.09 SHORT-TERM PATENT

PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1,  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1(a),  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1(b),  PCT
Rule 76.5,  PL Art. 12,  PL Art. 29,  PL Art. 50,  PL Art. 53,  PL Art. 54  
If the applicant wishes to obtain a short-term patent instead of a patent in
Armenia, on the basis of an international application, the applicant, when
performing the acts referred to in Article 22 or 39, shall so indicate to the
Office. The short-term patent application is subjected to formal examination,
and a short-term patent shall be granted, if the international application
also, on the face of it, meets patentability requirements. For this purpose,
the prior art is being defined as materials at the examiner’s disposal.

AM.10 CONVERSION

PL Art. 46  
The applicant may, at the latest, 10 working days before the date of
publication of the application, submit a request to convert the patent
application into a short-term patent application. The short-term patent
application may be converted into a patent application at any time before the
decision to grant a short-term patent is taken. The converted application
shall have the priority date of the date of the initial application.

AM.11 NUCLEOTIDE AND AMINO ACID SEQUENCES

Where the international application contains disclosure of one or more
nucleotide and/or amino acid sequences, the applicant must furnish a sequence
listing as a separate part of the description in electronic form.

##  Annexes

Annex AM.I - Fees

Patents

Filing fee 3

20,000 AMD

Additional fee for each claim in excess of five 3

5,000 AMD

Fee for priority claims 3

per priority 10,000 AMD

Fee for grant 3

15,000 AMD

Publication fee for each sheet of description of an invention in excess of 25
3

2,500 AMD

Appeal fees against decision on examination 3

25,000 AMD

Fee for requesting excuse of the failure to comply with a time limit 3

15,000 AMD

Fee for restoration of the right of priority

10,000 AMD

Fee for conversion of an application for a patent into an application for a
short-term patent 3

10,000 AMD

Annual fees: 3

— for the 2nd and the 3rd years

per year 20,000 AMD

— for the 4th and the 5th years

per year 25,000 AMD

— for the 6th and the 7th years

per year 30,000 AMD

— for the 8th and the 9th years

per year 40,000 AMD

— for the 10thand the 11th years

per year 50,000 AMD

— for the 12th and the 13th years

per year 60,000 AMD

— for the 14th and the 15th years

per year 70,000 AMD

— for the 16th and the 17th years

per year 80,000 AMD

— for the 18th to the 20th years

per year 100,000 AMD

— for the 21st and the 22nd years

per year 130,000 AMD

— for the 23rd to the 25th years

per year 160,000 AMD

Short-term patents

Filing fee 3

20,000 AMD

Additional fee for each claim in excess of five 3

5,000 AMD

Fee for priority claims 3

per priority 10,000 AMD

Fee for grant of short-term patent 3

25,000 AMD

Publication fee for each sheet in excess of 25 3

2,500 AMD

Appeal fee against decision on examination 3

15,000 AMD

Fee for requesting excuse of the failure to comply with a time limit 3

15,000 AMD

Fee for conversion of an application for a short-term patent into an
application for a patent 3

10,000 AMD

Annual fees:

— for the 2nd and the 3rd years

per year 20,000 AMD

— for the 4th and the 5th years

per year 25,000 AMD

— for the 6th and the 7th years

per year 30,000 AMD

— for the 8th and the 9th years

per year 35,000 AMD

— for the 10th year

40,000 AMD

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of fees should be effected in Armenian drams. All payments must
indicate the application number  
(national, if already known; international, if the national application number
is not yet known), the name of the applicant and the type of fee being paid.
The fees should be paid to the Office by bank draft.

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex AM.II - Power of
attorney](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_am.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office.  
2 ^ a b c d Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under
PCT Article 22 or 39(1).  
3 ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q Fees are reduced by 75% if the applicant
is a physical person or legal entity with less than 25 employees, and by 50%
for legal entities with 25 to 100 employees.  

Change(s) as of 16 April 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

Close

Current version applicable from 16 Apr 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

