####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * ISA
  * IPEA
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
AU - Useful informationAU - International PhaseAU - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationAU - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeAU - Annex D - International Searching AuthorityAU - Annex E -
International Preliminary Examining AuthorityAU - Annex L - Deposits of
Microorganisms and Other Biological MaterialAU - National PhaseAU - Summary of
requirements for entry into the national phaseAU - The procedure in the
national PhaseAU - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide AU - Australia  
Australian Patent Office

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **18 April 2024**

(published on 19 April 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
GENERAL INFO: Payment methods  
RO: Electronic filing, Incorporation by reference  
IPEA: IPEA Competency  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase: National phase,
Restoration of the right of priority, Reinstatement of rights  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 1 Jan 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for AU - Australian Patent Office)).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Australian Patent Office

APA: Australian Patents Act

APR: Australian Patents Regulations

Sec.: Section of the Patents Act

Reg.: Regulation of the Patents Regulations

List of currencies used in this document:

AUD (Australian dollar), CHF (Swiss franc), EUR (Euro), KRW (Korean won), NZD
(New Zealand dollar), SGD (Singapore dollar), USD (US dollar), ZAR (South
African rand)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=AU).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Rule 23 _bis_.2(e)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Australia

Two-letter code:

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

Name of Office:

Australian Patent Office

Location:

Discovery House  
47 Bowes Street  
Phillip  
Canberra A.C.T. 2606  
Australia

Mailing address:

P.O. Box 200  
Woden  
A.C.T. 2606  
Australia

Telephone:

Local  
1300 65 10 10

International  
(61-2) 622 236 26

E-mail:

pct@ipaustralia.gov.au

Website:

<http://www.ipaustralia.gov.au>

Facsimile:

None

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

Yes

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

Yes, the Office is prepared to allow applicants to make national and
international applications filed in electronic form available to the WIPO DAS

For further details on how to request this Office to make applications
available to DAS, refer to <https://www.ipaustralia.gov.au/patents/applying-
patent/international-application-process/applying-international-
application/priority-document-access-service-das>

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Patents,

Patents of addition

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

(i) All fees must be paid to the Australian Patent Office

(ii) National fees must be paid by credit card, accounts for selected
services, cash, cheque, money order, EFTPOS, EFT or direct debit in Australian
dollars. Payments by bank transfer should be made to the following bank:

Beneficiary’s name  
IP Australia Official Departmental Account

Bank name  
National Australia Bank

Bank Account No.  
082-926 868711229

Bank Address  
Woden Shopping Square ACT 2606

BIC/SWIFT code  
NATAAU3303M

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

Regulation 3.14A of the Patents Regulations

Provisional protection after international publication:

The applicant enjoys the rights defined in Section 57 of the Patents Act 1990
from the date on which the international application is published under PCT
Article 21 or otherwise becomes open to public inspection under Section 56A of
the Patents Act 1990 and Regulation 4.4 of the Patents Regulations (the rights
are generally the same as he would have had if the patent had been granted on
the day that the specification is published except that he cannot institute
proceedings for infringement until the patent has been granted)

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or must be furnished within two months from the date of
invitation

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Australia

Language in which international applications may be filed:

English

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Same as above

Language in which the request may be filed:

Same as above

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”)

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C
of the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

For the relevant notifications by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 28 July 2016, pages 163 _et seq._ , 21 July 2022, page 185
and 7 September 2023, page 174.

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

Yes, without any conditions

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes,

the Office applies both the “unintentional” and the “due care” criteria to
such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

200 AUD

International filing fee:

2,274 AUD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

26 AUD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

342 AUD

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

513 AUD

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(AU)  
Annex D(KR)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

50 AUD

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

200 AUD

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No

Who can act as agent?

Any person registered to practice as a patent attorney before the Office

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Where there is an unresolved dispute about who is the agent representing the
applicant(s)

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Where there is an unresolved dispute about who is the agent representing the
applicant(s)

##  Annex D - International Searching Authority

International Searching Authority competent for the following Receiving
Offices:

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[BN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BN&doc-lang=EN)

Brunei Darussalam - Brunei Darussalam Intellectual Property Office (BruIPO)

,

[GH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=GH&doc-lang=EN)

Ghana - Registrar General's Department (Ghana)

,

[ID](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ID&doc-lang=EN)

Indonesia - Directorate General of Intellectual Property (Indonesia)

,

[IN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IN&doc-lang=EN)

India - Indian Patent Office

,

[IQ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IQ&doc-lang=EN)

Iraq - Iraqi Patent Office (IQPO)

,

[JM](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JM&doc-lang=EN)

Jamaica - Jamaica Intellectual Property Office (JIPO)

,

[JO](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JO&doc-lang=EN)

Jordan - Industrial Property Protection Directorate, Ministry of Industry,
Trade and Supply (Jordan)

,

[KE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KE&doc-lang=EN)

Kenya - Kenya Industrial Property Institute

,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[LR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=LR&doc-lang=EN)

Liberia - Liberia Intellectual Property Office (LIPO)

,

[MU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MU&doc-lang=EN)

Mauritius - Industrial Property Office of Mauritius (IPOM)

,

[MY](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MY&doc-lang=EN)

Malaysia - Intellectual Property Corporation of Malaysia

,

[NZ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=NZ&doc-lang=EN)

New Zealand - Intellectual Property Office of New Zealand (IPONZ)

,

[OM](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=OM&doc-lang=EN)

Oman - National Intellectual Property Office (Ministry of Commerce, Industry
and Investment Promotion) (Oman)

,

[PG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PG&doc-lang=EN)

Papua New Guinea - Intellectual Property Office of Papua New Guinea

,

[PH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PH&doc-lang=EN)

Philippines - Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines

,

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

,

[TH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TH&doc-lang=EN)

Thailand - Department of Intellectual Property (DIP) (Thailand)

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

,

[VN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=VN&doc-lang=EN)

Viet Nam - Intellectual Property Office of Viet Nam (IP Viet Nam)

,

[ZA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ZA&doc-lang=EN)

South Africa - Companies and Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC) (South
Africa)

,

[ZW](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ZW&doc-lang=EN)

Zimbabwe - Zimbabwe Intellectual Property Office

Search fee (PCT Rule 16):

2,200 AUD

1,287 CHF

1,336 EUR

1,913,000 KRW

2,357 NZD

1,930 SGD

1,407 USD

26,920 ZAR

This fee is payable to the receiving Office in the currency or one of the
currencies accepted by it.

Additional search fee (PCT Rule 40.2):

2,200 AUD

This fee is payable to the International Searching Authority and only in
particular circumstances.

Fee for copies of documents cited in the international search report (PCT Rule
44.3):

per document 50 AUD

This fee is capped at 200 AUD

How to obtain copies:

The Authority provides applicants and designated (elected) Offices with a copy
of each document cited in the international search report upon request,
subject to the payment of the fee mentioned below

Documents can be requested through eServices at:  
<http://portal.ipaustralia.gov.au/login>

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.1 _ter_):

per document 50 AUD

Protest fee (PCT Rule 40.2(e)):

None

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rule 13 _ter_.1(c)):

None

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the search fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded

Where the international application is withdrawn or is considered withdrawn,
under PCT Article 14(1), (3) or (4), before the start of the international
search:  
refund of 100%

Where the Authority benefits from an earlier search, depending upon the extent
of the benefit:  
refund of up to 50%

Where the Office issues a declaration that no international search report will
be established under PCT Article 17(2)(a):  
refund of 1,500 AUD

Languages accepted for international search:

English

Does the Authority accept informal comments on earlier search results where an
international application claims priority from an earlier application already
searched by this Authority?

No

Types of physical media accepted for the furnishing of nucleotide and/or amino
acid sequence listings:

The entire printable copy of the sequence listing and identifying data should
be contained within one text file (for applications with a filing date prior
to 1 July 2022, WIPO Standard ST.25 applies) or one XML file (for applications
filed on or after 1 July 2022, WIPO Standard ST.26 applies) on a single
standard (ISO 9660) CD-ROM, CD-R, DVD or DVD-R.

Subject matter that will not be searched:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 39.1 with the
exception of any subject matter searched under the patent grant procedure in
accordance with the provisions of Australian patent law

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Where there is an unresolved dispute about who is the agent representing the
applicant(s)

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Where there is an unresolved dispute about who is the agent representing the
applicant(s)

##  Annex E - International Preliminary Examining Authority

International Preliminary Examining Authority competent for the following
Receiving Offices:

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[BN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BN&doc-lang=EN)

Brunei Darussalam - Brunei Darussalam Intellectual Property Office (BruIPO)

,

[GH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=GH&doc-lang=EN)

Ghana - Registrar General's Department (Ghana)

,

[ID](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ID&doc-lang=EN)

Indonesia - Directorate General of Intellectual Property (Indonesia)

,

[IN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IN&doc-lang=EN)

India - Indian Patent Office

,

[IQ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IQ&doc-lang=EN)

Iraq - Iraqi Patent Office (IQPO)

,

[JM](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JM&doc-lang=EN)

Jamaica - Jamaica Intellectual Property Office (JIPO)

,

[JO](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JO&doc-lang=EN)

Jordan - Industrial Property Protection Directorate, Ministry of Industry,
Trade and Supply (Jordan)

,

[KE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KE&doc-lang=EN)

Kenya - Kenya Industrial Property Institute

,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[LR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=LR&doc-lang=EN)

Liberia - Liberia Intellectual Property Office (LIPO)

,

[MU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MU&doc-lang=EN)

Mauritius - Industrial Property Office of Mauritius (IPOM)

,

[MY](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MY&doc-lang=EN)

Malaysia - Intellectual Property Corporation of Malaysia

,

[NZ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=NZ&doc-lang=EN)

New Zealand - Intellectual Property Office of New Zealand (IPONZ)

,

[OM](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=OM&doc-lang=EN)

Oman - National Intellectual Property Office (Ministry of Commerce, Industry
and Investment Promotion) (Oman)

,

[PG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PG&doc-lang=EN)

Papua New Guinea - Intellectual Property Office of Papua New Guinea

,

[PH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PH&doc-lang=EN)

Philippines - Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines

,

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

,

[TH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TH&doc-lang=EN)

Thailand - Department of Intellectual Property (DIP) (Thailand)

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

,

[VN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=VN&doc-lang=EN)

Viet Nam - Intellectual Property Office of Viet Nam (IP Viet Nam)

,

[ZA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ZA&doc-lang=EN)

South Africa - Companies and Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC) (South
Africa)

,

[ZW](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ZW&doc-lang=EN)

Zimbabwe - Zimbabwe Intellectual Property Office

Preliminary examination fee (PCT Rule 58):

590 AUD

Where the international search report was not issued by the Australian Patent
Office

820 AUD

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority.

Additional preliminary examination fee (PCT Rule 68.3):

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority and
only in particular circumstances.

590 AUD

Handling fee (PCT Rule 57.1):

342 AUD

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority. It
is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee for copies of documents cited in the international preliminary examination
report (PCT Rule 71.2):

per document 50 AUD

This fee is capped at 200 AUD

How to obtain copies:

The Authority provides applicants and elected Offices with a copy of each
document cited in the international preliminary examination report upon
request, subject to the payment of the fee mentioned above

Documents can be requested through eServices at:  
<http://portal.ipaustralia.gov.au/login>

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.2):

per document 50 AUD

Protest fee (PCT Rule 68.3(e)):

None

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rule 13 _ter_.2):

None

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the preliminary examination fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded

In the cases provided for under PCT Rule 58.3:  
refund of 100%

If the international application or the demand is withdrawn before the start
of the international preliminary examination:  
refund of 100%

Languages accepted for international preliminary examination:

English

Subject matter that will not be examined:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 67.1 with the
exception of any subject matter examined under the patent grant procedure in
accordance with the provisions of Australian patent law

Are there any restrictions with regard to the competence of the Authority
acting as an International Preliminary Examining Authority?

No

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Where there is an unresolved dispute about who is the agent representing the
applicant(s)

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Where there is an unresolved dispute about who is the agent representing the
applicant(s)

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

None

— any additional indications:

At the time of filing (as part of the application)

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, relevant information on the
characteristics of the microorganism

Additional information

An applicant may give notice that the furnishing of a sample of a
microorganism shall only be effected prior to the grant of a patent, or to the
lapsing, refusal or withdrawal of an application, to a person who is a skilled
addressee without an interest in the invention (Regulation 3.25A(2) of the
Australian Patents Regulations). The applicant must give notice directly to
the Australian Patent Office before the application is made available to the
public (normally the international publication date).

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(3): 31 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes, the Office permits reinstatement of rights under the “due care”
criterion.

Fee for reinstatement

100 AUD

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s): 1

English

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase: 1

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended), any text matter of drawings

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings (if
any of those parts has been amended, only as amended by the annexes to the
international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

A copy is required only if the applicant expressly requests an earlier start
of the national phase under PCT Article 23(2) at a time when the applicant has
not received Form PCT/IB/308 and the Office has not received a copy of the
international application from the International Bureau under PCT Article 20

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

Yes, without any conditions

National fees:

Filing fee: 1

Where the following preferred means for specific transactions are used: Online
Services (eServices) or Business to Business (B2B).  
For further details, refer to:  
<http://www.ipaustralia.gov.au/patents/understanding-patents/time-and-costs>

370 AUD

Where other means such as mail or at a counter are used for specific
transactions.  
For further details, refer to:  
<http://www.ipaustralia.gov.au/patents/understanding-patents/time-and-costs>

570 AUD

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Name of the inventor if it has not been furnished in the “Request” part of the
international application 2

Statement or notice as to the applicant’s entitlement to apply for and be
granted a patent 2

Statement or notice as to the applicant’s entitlement to claim priority of the
earlier application 2

Address for service in Australia or New Zealand (but no representation by an
agent is required)

Verification of translation 3

Who can act as agent?

Any person registered to practice as a patent attorney before the Office

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies national requirements to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

AU.01 TRANSLATION (VERIFICATION)

APR Reg. 3.5AC(9),  APR Reg. 3.5AF(2D),  1.3 definition of “certificate of
verification”  
A verification of the translation of the international application or of any
amendments under PCT Articles 19 or 34 need only be furnished to the Office if
the Commissioner specifically requires the applicant to do so. This only
occurs if there is a reasonable belief that the translation into English does
not accurately reflect the document in its original language. The required
certificate of verification of the translation of the international
application consists of a simple signed and dated statement, which can be made
by any person.

AU.02 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

APR Reg. 3.5AC(8),  APR Reg. 3.5AC(9)(a),  APR Reg. 3.5AF(2C),  APR Reg.
3.5AF(2D)(a)  
Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003). This can be done when the
applicant becomes aware of an error or omission, or in response to the
Commissioner requiring verification of a translation.

AU.03 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex AU.I.

AU.04 ADDRESS FOR SERVICE

APR Reg. 3.2C(2)(a)(i)  
An applicant, irrespective of whether or not he is a national of or a resident
in Australia, is not required to be represented by an agent, but he is
required to have an address for service (of notices and other communications)
in Australia or New Zealand. The applicant must supply such an address in
order to continue proceedings before the Office. Any applicant may be
represented by a patent attorney authorized to practice before the Office and
the address for service should normally be that of a registered patent
attorney. A list of registered patent attorneys is available upon request from
the Office.

AU.05 RENEWAL FEE

APA Sec. 142(2)(d),  APA Sec. 143(a),  APR Reg.13.3,  APR Reg.13.6,  APR
Reg.22.2  
A continuation (renewal) fee must be paid to maintain the application. The
first continuation fee falls due four years from the international filing date
(fourth anniversary fee); thereafter a continuation fee becomes due on each
anniversary of the international filing date. Payment can be made at any time
up to the due date or together with the payment of a fee for extension of
time, within six months from the final date. The amounts of the continuation
fees and of the fees for extension of time are indicated in Annex AU.I.

AU.06 REQUEST FOR EXAMINATION

APA Sec. 44,  APA Sec. 45,  APR Reg. 3.15  
The Office will grant a standard patent only after examination as to
patentability, the procedure for which is started only upon request.

AU.07 TIME LIMIT FOR REQUESTING EXAMINATION

APR Reg. 3.15,  APR Reg. 3.16  
Examination must be requested within five years from the international filing
date or, where the Office directs the applicant to request examination, within
two months of the date of the notice of the Office to that effect.

AU.08 FEE FOR REQUESTING EXAMINATION

APR Reg. 22.2,  APR Reg. 22.2C  
The request for examination is only effective if a fee for requesting
examination has been paid. The amount of this fee is indicated in Annex AU.I.

AU.09 TIME LIMIT TO HAVE AN APPLICATION ACCEPTED

APA Sec. 142(2)€,  APR Reg. 13.4  
An application for which an examination request has been made has to have been
accepted within 12 months from the date of the first examination report.

AU.10 ACCEPTANCE FEE

APR Reg. 22.22,  APR Reg. 22.2I  
A fee is required to be paid upon acceptance of the application. The amount of
this fee is indicated in Annex AU.I.

AU.11 ENTITLEMENT

APR Reg. 3.15(2)  
All requests for examination must include a statement or notice as to the
applicant’s entitlement to apply for and be granted a patent, and to claim
priority of the earlier application. These requirements may be taken to have
been met if the applicant includes in the request the relevant declarations in
accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.

AU.12 PRIORITY DOCUMENT (TRANSLATION)

APA Sec. 43AA,  APR Reg. 3.14D,  APR Reg. 22.15A  
A verified translation into English (refer to paragraph AU.01) of any priority
document need only be furnished to the Office if the Commissioner specifically
requests the applicant to do so. This will only occur when the translation is
necessary to determine the validity of the application.

Verification of the translated priority document is only required to be
furnished to the Office if the Commissioner specifically requires the
applicant to do so. This only occurs if there is a reasonable belief that the
translation into English does not accurately reflect the priority document in
its original language. The required certificate of verification of the
translation of the priority document consists of a simple signed and dated
statement, which can be made by any person.

AU.13 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  APA Sec. 102,  APA Sec. 104,  APR Chapter 10  
The applicant may make the following modifications to his application before
the Office (subject, in the case of voluntary amendment, to the payment of the
fee for voluntary amendments indicated in Annex AU.I):

(i) prior to acceptance:

— correction of clerical errors and obvious mistakes;

— such modifications as do not result in the claiming or disclosure of new
matter (beyond the disclosure of the international application as filed);

(ii) after acceptance:

— correction of clerical errors and obvious mistakes;

— such modifications as do not result in the claiming or disclosure of new
matter (beyond the disclosure of the international application as filed) and
do not broaden the scope of the claims existing before the modifications.

AU.14 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51,  APA Sec. 10,  APR Reg. 3.5AB  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. Before any adverse decision is made, the applicant is always
afforded the opportunity of being heard. Review of an adverse decision can be
obtained from the Federal Court of Australia.

AU.15 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2)  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.

AU.16

APA Sec. 223,  APR Reg. 8.3(4),  APR Reg. 22.11  
If, due to an error or omission on the part of the applicant, his agent or
attorney, or due to circumstances beyond the control of the person concerned,
the applicant has failed to observe a time limit which is prejudicial to his
rights, or the Commissioner is satisfied that the person took due care as
required by the circumstances, to ensure the doing of the act within that
time, he may request the Office to extend the time limit even though that time
has already expired. The request must be presented in writing, and establish
the facts on which the request is based in a declaration and also must be
accompanied by a fee (for the amount of the fee, refer to Annex AU.I).

AU.17 RESTORATION OF THE RIGHT OF PRIORITY

PCT Rule 49 _ter_(f),  APA Sec. 223  
A request for restoration of the right of priority will be treated under
national law requirements, at the option of the applicant, as an application
for an extension of time on the basis of the relevant act not being done
despite due care, not being done due to circumstances beyond the control of
the person concerned or because of an error or omission on the part of the
person concerned or by his or her agent or attorney. Fees and other
requirements associated with the request vary according to the criterion
against which it is made. A request for restoration should be presented in
writing, should indicate the criterion against which the request is made and
be accompanied by the relevant fee (refer to “Fee for extension of time limit”
in Annex AU.I). Preferably it should also be accompanied by a declaration
setting out the circumstances and facts on which the request is based.

##  Annexes

Annex AU.I - Fees

Standard patent applications

Filing fee:

370 AUD 4

570 AUD 5

— national phase entry of a PCT application under paragraph 89(398b) of the
Australian Patents Act

370 AUD 4

570 AUD 5

Request for examination fee:

(a) for examination under section 45 of the Australian Patents Act (normal
examination):

(i) if the application is a PCT application for which the Australian Patent
Office has issued an international preliminary examination report under PCT
Article 35

300 AUD

(ii) all other applications

490 AUD

Fee for acceptance of a patent request and complete specification:

(a) for acceptance

250 AUD

(b) if more than 20 claims are contained in the specification at acceptance,
for each claim in excess of 20 (but equal to or less than 30)

125 AUD

(c) if more than 30 claims are contained in the specification at acceptance,
for each claim in excess of 30

250 AUD

Continuation/renewal fees: (becoming payable on each anniversary of the
international filing date from the 4th onwards):

— on the 4th anniversary

300 AUD 4

350 AUD 5

— on the 5th anniversary

315 AUD 4

365 AUD 5

— on the 6th anniversary

335 AUD 4

385 AUD 5

— on the 7th anniversary

360 AUD 4

410 AUD 5

— on the 8th anniversary

390 AUD 4

440 AUD 5

— on the 9th anniversary

425 AUD 4

475 AUD 5

— on the 10th anniversary

490 AUD 4

540 AUD 5

— on the 11th anniversary

585 AUD 4

635 AUD 5

— on the 12th anniversary

710 AUD 4

760 AUD 5

— on the 13th anniversary

865 AUD 4

915 AUD 5

— on the 14th anniversary

1,050 AUD 4

1,100 AUD 4

— on the 15th anniversary

1,280 AUD 4

1,330 AUD 5

— on the 16th anniversary

1,555 AUD 4

1,605 AUD 5

— on the 17th anniversary

1,875 AUD 4

1,925 AUD 5

— on the 18th anniversary

2,240 AUD 4

2,290 AUD 5

— on the 19th anniversary

2,650 AUD 4

2,700 AUD 5

Fee for extension of time limit:

(a) where there is an error or omission on the part of the person concerned or
his agent or attorney—for each or part of a month

100 AUD

(b) for circumstances beyond the control of the person concerned—application
for extension of time

100 AUD

(c) where the Commissioner is satisfied that the person concerned took due
care, as required by the circumstances, to ensure the doing of the act within
that time—for each or part of a month

100 AUD

(d) to pay continuation fee if the fee is not paid on or before the
anniversary but is paid within 6 months of the anniversary—for each or part of
a month for which the time is extended

100 AUD

Fee for voluntary amendments before request for examination is filed or after
acceptance

250 AUD

Additional fee for voluntary amendments after acceptance, if the specification
as proposed to be amended has more than 20 claims, and the effect of the
amendment is to increase the number of claims, for each additional claim

250 AUD

The complete list of national fees for the Office is in Part 2 in Schedule 7
to the Australian Patents Regulations

How can payment of fees be effected?

(i) All fees must be paid to the Australian Patent Office

(ii) National fees must be paid by credit card, accounts for selected
services, cash, cheque, money order, EFTPOS, EFT or direct debit in Australian
dollars. Payments by bank transfer should be made to the following bank:

Beneficiary’s name  
IP Australia Official Departmental Account

Bank name  
National Australia Bank

Bank Account No.  
082-926 868711229

Bank Address  
Woden Shopping Square ACT 2606

BIC/SWIFT code  
NATAAU3303M

Forms

Please refer to the office.

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a b c Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1).  
2 ^ a b c This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration
has been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  
3 ^ a A verified translation is only required upon request by the
Commissioner.  
4 ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s This fee is applicable where the
following preferred means for specific transactions are used: Online Services
(eServices) or Business to Business (B2B). For further details, refer to
<http://www.ipaustralia.gov.au/patents/understanding-patents/time-and-costs>  
5 ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q This fee is applicable where other means
such as mail or at a counter are used for specific transactions. For further
details, refer to <http://www.ipaustralia.gov.au/patents/understanding-
patents/time-and-costs>  

Change(s) as of 18 April 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental Organization

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

(i) All fees must be paid to the Australian Patent Office

(ii) National fees must be paid by credit card, accounts for selected
services, cash, cheque, money order, EFTPOS, EFT or direct debit in Australian
dollars. Payments by bank transfer should be made to the following bank:

Beneficiary’s name  
IP Australia Official Departmental Account

Bank name  
National Australia Bank

Bank Account No.  
082-926 868711229

Bank Address  
Woden Shopping Square ACT 2606

BIC/SWIFT code  
NATAAU3303M

  

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

  

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

  

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

Yes, without any conditions

  

  
Annex E - International Preliminary Examining Authority

Are there any restrictions with regard to the competence of the Authority
acting as an International Preliminary Examining Authority?

No

  

  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes, the Office permits reinstatement of rights under the “due care”
criterion.

Fee for reinstatement

100 AUD

  

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

Yes, without any conditions

  

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

  

Close

Current version applicable from 18 Apr 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

