####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   
AZ - Useful informationAZ - International PhaseAZ - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationAZ - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeAZ - National PhaseAZ - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseAZ - The procedure in the national Phase

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide AZ - Azerbaijan  
Intellectual Property Agency of the Republic of Azerbaijan

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **4 April 2024**

(published on 4 April 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
GENERAL INFO: Payment methods  
RO: Electronic filing, Incorporation by reference  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase: National phase,
Restoration of the right of priority, Reinstatement of rights  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 1 Jan 2024, 1 Mar 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for AZ - Intellectual Property Agency of the Republic of Azerbaijan)).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Intellectual Property Agency of the Republic of Azerbaijan

List of currencies used in this document:

AZN (Azerbaijani manat), USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=AZ).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Azerbaijan

Two-letter code:

[AZ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AZ&doc-lang=EN)

Azerbaijan - Intellectual Property Agency of the Republic of Azerbaijan

Name of Office:

Intellectual Property Agency of the Republic of Azerbaijan

Location:

Government House  
U. Hajibeyli 84  
AZ 1000 Baku  
Azerbaijan

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(994-12) 493 39 44  
(994-12) 493 66 87

E-mail:

info@copat.gov.az

Website:

<http://www.copat.gov.az>

Facsimile:

(994-12) 498 10 28  
(994-12) 498 10 29

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes, within 14 days from the date of the transmission, if the transmitted
document is the international application or a replacement sheet containing
corrections or amendments of the international application

No, only upon invitation in the case of other documents

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes, provided that the delivery service is:

DHL  
Federal Express

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[AZ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AZ&doc-lang=EN)

Azerbaijan - Intellectual Property Agency of the Republic of Azerbaijan

,

[EA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EA&doc-lang=EN)

Eurasian Patent Organization - Eurasian Patent Office (EAPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Law of the Republic of Azerbaijan on Patents, Article 25

Yes

Filing restrictions apply to:

Applications containing State secrets

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: AZ

Eurasian patent: EA

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents,

Utility models

Eurasian:

Patents

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

The Office accepts the payment of fees by bank transfer, check and through the
PANAH system.

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

For national protection

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If the data concerning the inventor are missing at the
expiration of the time limit under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will
invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within the time limit
fixed in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

No

For a Eurasian patent

Refer to [Annex B(EA)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=EA&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Azerbaijan

Language in which international applications may be filed:

Azerbaijani,

English,

Russian

  

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3).

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

The Office has not specifically notified the International Bureau of the
language that it accepts under PCT Rule 12.1(d).

Same as above

Language in which the request may be filed:

English,

Russian

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”)

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C
of the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
If the receiving Office does not accept international applications in
electronic form in such format, the international application will be
transmitted to the International Bureau as receiving Office (PCT Rule
19.4(a)(ii-_bis_)).

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 26 November 2015, pages 188 et seq

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

No

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, please refer to the Office for the applicable criteria and/or any fee
payable for such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EA&doc-lang=EN)

Eurasian Patent Organization - Eurasian Patent Office (EAPO)

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EA&doc-lang=EN)

Eurasian Patent Organization - Eurasian Patent Office (EAPO)

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

1,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

30 AZN

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

235 USD

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

352 USD

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(RU)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

10 AZN

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Azerbaijan

Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any patent agent who is authorized to practice before the Office

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Not applicable

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Not applicable

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Azerbaijani

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, as amended only
together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any text matter of
drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, only as amended by the
annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

No

National fees:

Patents or utility models

Filing fee (including examination)

20 AZN

Must be paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)

Additional fee for each independent claim in excess of one

7 AZN

Additional fee for each dependent claim in excess of ten

7 AZN

Annual fee for the 3rd year

50 AZN

where all applicants are natural persons

10 AZN

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirements within a time limit fixed in the invitation

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application 2

Declaration justifying the applicant’s right to a patent if he is not the
inventor 2

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in Azerbaijan

Who can act as agent?

Any patent attorney registered to practice before the Office

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, please refer to the Office for the applicable criteria and/or any fee
payable for such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

Information not yet available

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office.  
2 ^ a b This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  

Change(s) as of 4 April 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental Organization

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

The Office accepts the payment of fees by bank transfer, check and through the
PANAH system.

  

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

  

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

  

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

No

  

  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes

  

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

No

  

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

  

Close

Current version applicable from 4 Apr 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

