####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
BA - Useful informationBA - International PhaseBA - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationBA - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeBA - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialBA - National PhaseBA - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseBA - The procedure in the national PhaseBA - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide BA - Bosnia & Herzegovina  
Institute for Intellectual Property of Bosnia and Herzegovina

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **1 January 2024**

(published on 1 December 2023)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
RO: RO fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for BA - Institute for Intellectual Property of Bosnia and Herzegovina)).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Institute for Intellectual Property of Bosnia and Herzegovina

IPL: Bosnian Patent Law

APL: Bosnian Law on Administrative Procedures

List of currencies used in this document:

BAM (Convertible mark), EUR (Euro)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=BA).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Bosnia & Herzegovina

Two-letter code:

[BA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BA&doc-lang=EN)

Bosnia and Herzegovina - Institute for Intellectual Property of Bosnia and
Herzegovina

Name of Office:

Institute for Intellectual Property of Bosnia and Herzegovina

Location:

Mostar (Head Office):  
Kneza Domagoja bb  
88000 Mostar  
Bosnia and Herzegovina

Banja Luka Office:  
Akademika Jovana Surutke 13/III  
78000 Banja Luka  
Bosnia and Herzegovina

Sarajevo Office:  
Bulevar Meše Selimovića 95  
Lamela C  
3 sprat  
71000 Sarajevo  
Bosnia and Herzegovina

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

Mostar:  
(387-36) 33 43 81

Banja Luka:  
(387-51) 22 68 40

Sarajevo:  
(387-33) 65 27 65

E-mail:

info@ipr.gov.ba

Website:

<http://www.ipr.gov.ba>

Facsimile:

Mostar:  
(387-36) 31 84 20

Banja Luka:  
(387-51) 22 68 41

Sarajevo:  
(387-33) 65 27 57

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by e-mail or facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes, within 15 days from the date of the transmission

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes, provided that the delivery service is a recognized delivery service

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[BA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BA&doc-lang=EN)

Bosnia and Herzegovina - Institute for Intellectual Property of Bosnia and
Herzegovina

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: BA

Extension of European patent: EP

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Consensual patents,

Patents

European:

Extended European patents

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

For national protection

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If the data concerning the inventor are missing at the
expiration of the time limit under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will
invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit fixed
in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

For extension of a European patent

Refer to [Annex B(EP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=ep&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b), [National
phase(EP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ep&doc-
lang=en&doc-type=annex#national_phase) and [National
Chapter(BA)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BA&doc-
lang=en)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Bosnia & Herzegovina

Language in which international applications may be filed:

English

Language in which the request may be filed:

English

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, please refer to the Office for the applicable criteria and/or any fee
payable for such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

50 BAM

International filing fee:

1,381 EUR

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

16 EUR

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EP)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

40 BAM

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Bosnia and Herzegovina

Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any person registered to practice before the Office

Waiver of power of attorney:

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Refer to the Office

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Refer to the Office

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

At the time of filing, either in the description or separately

— any additional indications:

At the time of filing, either in the description or separately

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, relevant information on the
characteristics of the microorganism

Additional information

Deposits may be made for the purposes of patent procedure before the Institute
for Intellectual Property of Bosnia and Herzegovina with any depositary
institution having acquired the status of international depositary authority
under the Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of
Microorganisms for the Purposes of Patent Procedure (these institutions are
indicated further in this Annex and notifications related thereto may be
consulted under <https://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>).

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

If grant of a national patent by the Institute for Intellectual Property of
Bosnia and Herzegovina is desired:

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(3): 34 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 34 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Bosnian,

Croatian,

Serbian

  

Must be furnished within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or
39(1)

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

Yes

National fees:

Filing and publication fee

260 BAM

— for each page of the application over 30

plus 3 BAM

— for each claim over 10

plus 11 BAM

Publication fee for granted patent

60 BAM

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

The filing fee is reduced by 50% where the applicant is also the inventor

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in Bosnia and
Herzegovina

Who can act as agent?

Any person registered to practice before the Office

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, please refer to the Office for the applicable criteria and/or any fee
payable for such requests

If extension of a European patent is desired: Refer to Annex B(EP) and
National Chapters EP and BA (only for BA)

##  The procedure in the national Phase

BA.01 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

BA.02 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex BA.I.

BA.03 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41  
The applicant may amend or correct the international application up to the
grant of a patent, provided that the scope of the subject matter of the
application is not broadened thereby.

BA.04 MAINTENANCE FEES

After a patent has been granted, maintenance fees must be paid for maintaining
the patent in force. The first maintenance fee is payable for the third year
following the international filing date. Payment of the maintenance fees for
subsequent years must be made before the anniversary of the international
filing date. If payment is not made within this time limit, the Office will
invite the applicant to pay the maintenance fee, together with a 50%
surcharge, within six months after the due date. The amounts of the
maintenance fees are indicated in Annex BA.I.

BA.05 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2),  PCT Rule 82 _bis_  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase. Where,
during the international phase or before the Office, the applicant has missed
a time limit for performing any act in relation to the international
application, such time limit may be extended by the Office. The procedure for
excusing a delay is available to: (1) parties which have been delayed in
performing certain actions due to justifiable reasons; (2) parties which have
failed to submit the application in time because it was submitted to an
unauthorized authority due to lack of awareness or obvious mistake; and (3)
parties which have missed prescribed deadlines due to lack of awareness or
obvious mistake but submit the application or relevant papers to the competent
authority within three days after the deadline and where delay would mean that
the party would lose rights.

BA.06

The request for excusing a delay shall explain the circumstances which caused
the delay and include the paper(s) sought to be submitted late. The request
for excusing a delay must be submitted within eight days from the day on which
the circumstances which caused the delay ceased to exist, or, where the party
learned about its cessation only later, from the day the party learned of it.
Requests for excusing a delay are acceptable only up to three months from the
day when the delayed paper or action was due.

BA.07 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. In the case of a negative decision of the Office during the
national phase (including in case of a request for review under Article 25),
an appeal may be submitted to the Board of Appeal of the Institute for
Intellectual Property of Bosnia and Herzegovina within one month from the date
of receipt of the decision.

##  Annexes

Annex BA.I - Fees

Filing and publication fee

260 BAM

Publication fee for granted patent

60 BAM

Maintenance fees:

— for the 3rd year, counted from the international filing date

90 BAM

— for the 4th year, counted from the international filing date

110 BAM

— for the 5th year, counted from the international filing date

130 BAM

— for the 6th year, counted from the international filing date

190 BAM

— for the 7th year, counted from the international filing date

250 BAM

— for the 8th year, counted from the international filing date

310 BAM

— for the 9th year, counted from the international filing date

370 BAM

— for the 10th year, counted from the international filing date.

480 BAM

— for the 11th year, counted from the international filing date.

600 BAM

— for the 12th year, counted from the international filing date.

720 BAM

— for the 13th year, counted from the international filing date.

940 BAM

— for the 14th year, counted from the international filing date.

1,060 BAM

— for the 15th year, counted from the international filing date.

1,180 BAM

— for the 16th year, counted from the international filing date.

1,400 BAM

— for the 17th year, counted from the international filing date.

1,620 BAM

— for the 18th year, counted from the international filing date.

1,840 BAM

— for the 19th year, counted from the international filing date.

2,060 BAM

— for the 20th year, counted from the international filing date.

2,280 BAM

How can payment of fees be effected?

All fees must be paid to the Institute for Intellectual Property of Bosnia and
Herzegovina via a registered patent agent

Exceptionally, foreign natural persons and legal entities may make the payment
directly without a representative if the payment is made in the local currency
(BAM). Foreign natural persons and legal entities shall submit to the Office
the address for correspondence which must be in the territory of Bosnia and
Herzegovina. In that case, upon request, the Office will issue an invoice with
all the necessary information for payment

Forms

Please refer to the office.

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Change(s) as of 1 January 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

International filing fee:

1,381 EUR

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Close

Current version applicable from 1 Jan 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

