####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  
BE - Useful informationBE - International PhaseBE - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationBE - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeBE - National Phase

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide BE - Belgium  
Intellectual Property Office (Belgium)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **12 April 2024**

(published on 12 April 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
GENERAL INFO: Payment methods  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for BE - Intellectual Property Office \(Belgium\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Intellectual Property Office (Belgium)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=BE).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Belgium

Two-letter code:

[BE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BE&doc-lang=EN)

Belgium - Intellectual Property Office (Belgium)

Name of Office:

Intellectual Property Office (Belgium)

Location:

Atrium C  
Rue du Progrès 50  
B-1210 Bruxelles  
Belgium

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(32-2) 277 90 11

E-mail:

opridie-tech@economie.fgov.be

Website:

<http://economie.fgov.be/fr/themes/propriete-intellectuelle/office-belge-de-
la-propriete>

Facsimile:

(32-2) 277 52 62

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes,

within 14 days from the date of the transmission

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

Nationals or residents of Belgium or legal persons having a principal place of
business in Belgium must file an international application which may be of
interest for national defense or security with the Intellectual Property
Office (Belgium)

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Types of protection available via the PCT:

European patents

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

Not applicable. The Office does not act as receiving Office and has closed its
national route

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

Article XI.23, paragraph 10 of the Code of Economic Law

Provisional protection after international publication:

Designation for the purposes of a European patent:

(1) International application published in one of the EPO official languages:

compensation reasonable in the circumstances, on condition that any national
requirements relating to the translation of the claims in the application have
been met

(2) International application published in a language which is not an EPO
official language:

the protection referred to in (1) does not become effective until the EPO
publishes the international application supplied to it in one of its official
languages

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

No

For a European patent

Refer to [Annex B(EP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=ep&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

The Office does not act as receiving Office

This Office has delegated its RO functions to RO/EP. Refer to [Annex
C(EP)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-
lang=EN&doc-type=ANNEX) for more information.

##  National Phase

The Office closed the national route

Refer to [National Chapter(EP)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-
doc.xhtml?doc-code=ep&doc-lang=en)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Change(s) as of 12 April 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental Organization

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

Not applicable. The Office does not act as receiving Office and has closed its
national route

  

Close

Current version applicable from 12 Apr 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

