####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
BG - Useful informationBG - International PhaseBG - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationBG - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeBG - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialBG - National PhaseBG - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseBG - The procedure in the national PhaseBG - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide BG - Bulgaria  
Patent Office of the Republic of Bulgaria

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **1 January 2024**

(published on 1 December 2023)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
RO: RO fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 12 Oct 2023, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for BG - Patent Office of the Republic of Bulgaria)).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Patent Office of the Republic of Bulgaria

BGL: Bulgarian Law Patent

List of currencies used in this document:

BGN (Bulgarian lev), EUR (Euro)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=BG).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Bulgaria

Two-letter code:

[BG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BG&doc-lang=EN)

Bulgaria - Patent Office of the Republic of Bulgaria

Name of Office:

Patent Office of the Republic of Bulgaria

Location:

52B Dr. G.M. Dimitrov Blvd.  
1040 Sofia  
Bulgaria

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(359-2) 970 13 21

E-mail:

services@bpo.bg

Website:

<http://www.bpo.bg>

Facsimile:

(359-2) 873 52 58

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes, within one month from the date of the transmission

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

Yes

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

A resident of Bulgaria may file an international application directly with the
European Patent Office or with the International Bureau of WIPO three months
after an application for a patent for the same invention has been filed at the
Patent Office of the Republic of Bulgaria and the latter application has been
classified by the defense authorities of Bulgaria as not being of a
confidential nature

[BG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BG&doc-lang=EN)

Bulgaria - Patent Office of the Republic of Bulgaria

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: BG

European patent: EP

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents,

Utility models (a utility model may be sought instead of or in parallel with a
national patent)

European:

Patents

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

Article 68(2) of the Law on Patents and Utility Model Registration

Provisional protection after international publication:

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a national patent:

The international application made available to the public shall obtain
temporary protection, under paragraphs (1) and (2) of PCT Article 29, as from
the day on which the issue of the Official Bulletin of the Patent Office of
the Republic of Bulgaria containing the announcement of the publication of the
Bulgarian translation of the international application has come out.

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a European patent:

The European application made available to the public shall obtain temporary
protection under Art. 67(1) of the European Patent Convention, as from the day
of publication of the issue of the Official Bulletin of the Patent Office of
the Republic of Bulgaria containing the announcement of the publication of the
Bulgarian translation of the European application (refer to Art. 72b(3) of the
Law on Patents and Utility Model Registration).

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

For national protection

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished later. If not already complied with
within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office
will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within three months
from the date of invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

For a European patent

Refer to [Annex B(EP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=ep&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Bulgaria

Language in which international applications may be filed:

Bulgarian,

English,

Russian

  

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3).

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Same language as the international application (Bulgarian, English or Russian)

Language in which the request may be filed:

English

Russian

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

3

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”)

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

For the relevant notifications by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 3 December 2020, page 269, 4 August 2022, page 205 and 5
October 2023, page 186.

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes,

the Office applies both the “unintentional” and the “due care” criteria to
such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

1,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

80 BGN

International filing fee:

1,381 EUR

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

16 EUR

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

208 EUR

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

311 EUR

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(RU)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

None

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

None

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No

if the applicant resides in Bulgaria

Yes

if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any patent attorney or patent agent registered to practice before the Office

Waiver of power of attorney:

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Refer to the Office

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Refer to the Office

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

At the time of filing, either in the description or separately

— any additional indications:

At the time of filing (as part of the application)

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, relevant information on the
characteristics of the microorganism

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(3): 31 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to furnish a
complete translation within three months from the date of the invitation.

Bulgarian

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to furnish a
complete translation within three months from the date of the invitation.

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

Patents

Filing fee

This fee must be paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or
39(1).

40 BGN

Publication fee

70 BGN

Utility models

Filing fee

This fee must be paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or
39(1).

40 BGN

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

For patents and utility models:

The filing fee is reduced by 50% where the applicant is the inventor, a State
educational institution, an academic research organization, a budgetary
organization or a small or medium-sized enterprise

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirements within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Instrument of assignment of the priority right if the applicants are not
identical 2

Instrument of assignment of the international application if the applicant has
changed after the international filing date

Declaration concerning the inventorship 2

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in Bulgaria

Translation of the international application to be furnished in three copies

Who can act as agent?

Any patent attorney or patent agent registered to practice before the Office

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes,

the Office applies both the “unintentional” and the “due care” criteria to
such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

BG.01 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

BGL Art. 35(3)  
Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

BG.02 LANGUAGE OF PROCEEDINGS

BGL Art. 34(2),  BGL Art. 35(3)  
The language of proceedings is Bulgarian.

BG.03 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

BGL Art. 5(2)  
The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex BG.I. The amount of fees for patents is reduced by 50% in
case of a declaration of readiness for licensing made by the applicant at the
time of entering the national phase.

BG.04 CLAIMS FEE

The claims fee must be computed on the basis of the number of claims valid at
the beginning of the national phase (that is, where amendments have been
filed, the claims as amended under PCT Article 19 or 34(2) or the claims as
submitted by the applicant under PCT Article 28 or 41 upon entering the
national phase). Where the applicant fails to pay the correct amount of the
claims fee, the Office will invite him to pay the missing amount.

BG.05 DECLARATION CONCERNING THE INVENTOR

BGL Art. 36  
The applicant must state who the inventor is and give his name and
nationality. This declaration will be made on behalf of the applicant by his
agent.

BG.06 POWER OF ATTORNEY

BGL Art. 3(2)  
An agent must be appointed by filing a power of attorney. The model is given
in Annex BG.II.

BG.07 EXAMINATION

BGL Art. 35(2),  BGL Art. 46(1)  
The Office carries out a formal requirements examination, preliminary
examination and admissibility. Entering the national phase the applicant must
file a request and pay a filing fee, a fee for formality requirements
examination, preliminary examination and admissibility. The Office invites the
applicant to pay the fees within three months from the filing day. Where the
applicant fails to furnish the document certifying payment of fees within the
term in the invitation, the application shall be deemed to be withdrawn. If
the result of the examination shows that the application contains formal
defects or is not otherwise patentable, the Office invites the applicant to
submit corrections and/or amendments. The manner of payment of the fees
indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter is outlined in Annex BG.I.

BG.08 PUBLICATION

BGL Art. 46c  
The application is published in Bulgarian after the expiry of 18 months from
the filing date or the priority date.

BG.09 EXAMINATION FEE WHERE AN ADDITIONAL SEARCH HAS TO BE CARRIED OUT

BGL Art. 69(4)  
This fee is to be paid where the priority claim(s) is (are) cancelled or where
the international search has not been carried out for a part of the
international application because of lack of unity.

BG.10 FEES FOR GRANT AND PUBLICATION

BGL Art. 53  
A fee for grant, a fee for mention of the grant of a patent in the _Official
Bulletin_ of the Office and a fee for publication of the granted patent must
be paid within three months after receipt by the applicant of the invitation
to pay said fees. The amounts of the fees are indicated in Annex BG.I.

BG.11 ANNUAL FEES

BGL Art. 33,  BGL Art. 26(2),  BGL Art. 53  
After a patent has been granted, a fee must be paid for each year following
the international filing date. Payment of the annual fees, for the years which
have expired or begun on the date of granting of the patent, must be made
together with the fees for grant and publication of the patent, within three
months from the receipt of an invitation to pay said fees, in accordance with
Article 53. Where the current patent year expires with the said three month
term, the fee for the next “patent year” shall also be paid. The annual fees
for subsequent years must be paid not later than the last day of the month in
which the preceding “patent year” expires. Where the applicant fails to pay by
that day, payment can still be made, together with a 100% surcharge for late
payment, within six months from the due date. A patent which has lapsed due to
failure to pay the fee may be renewed within a six-month period after payment
of the patent renewal fee. The “patent years” are counted from the
international filing date. The amounts of the annual fees are indicated in
Annex BG.I.

BG.12 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  BGL Art. 42,  BGL Art. 46(1)  
The applicant may make, without changing the substance of the invention,
amendments or corrections to the description, claims or drawing(s) within one
month from the fulfillment of the requirements under PCT Article 22 or 39(l).
Further amendments may be made up to the grant of the patent where required by
the Office, provided that the scope of the subject matter of the application
is not broadened thereby.

BG.13 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51,  BGL Art. 71  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. If, upon review under PCT Article 25, the Office denies an
error or omission on the part of the receiving Office or the International
Bureau, a reasoned appeal against this decision may be lodged with the Office
within three months from the date of receipt of the decision. The decision of
the Office on the appeal is final.

BG.14 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2),  BGL Art. 49  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.

BG.15

Reinstatement may be requested where the applicant, in spite of all due care
reasonably required, was unable to observe a time limit during the
international phase or before the Office, default of which is prejudicial to
his rights. A request for reinstatement must be presented within three months
after the removal of the cause of the failure to perform the action. The
request for reinstatement must be presented in writing, state the grounds on
which it is based and set out the facts on which it relies.

BG.16 EXTENSION OF TIME LIMIT FOR REPLY TO OFFICIAL ACTIONS

BGL Art. 48  
Whenever the applicant cannot reply to official actions in due time he may be
granted an extension by three months by filing with the Office a special
request (no prescribed form) and paying a fee as indicated in Annex BG.I. Such
extension may be requested not more than twice.

BG.17 UTILITY MODEL

PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1,  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1(a),  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1(b),  PCT
Rule 76.5,  BGL Art. 73,  BGL Art. 74,  BGL Art. 75,  BGL Art. 75b,  BGL Art.
75d  
Legal protection for utility models shall be granted through registration with
the Office. The registration shall have effect with respect to third parties
as of the date of publication in the Official Bulletin of the Office. The term
of validity of a utility model registration shall be four years as of the
filing date of the application. It may be extended by two consecutive three-
year periods. The total term of validity may not exceed 10 years as of the
filing date of the application. Where the applicant wishes to obtain a utility
model registration on the basis of an international application, instead of a
patent or in addition to a patent, or in the cases referred in Article 71, he
must file a request for transformation and he shall pay a filing fee and a fee
for examination of the formal requirements. The Office invites the applicant
to pay the fees within one month from the filing day. Where the applicant
fails to pay the correct amount of the fees, the examination department will
invite him to pay the missing amount. Where the applicant fails to furnish the
document certifying payment of fees within the time limit fixed in the
invitation, the application shall be deemed to be withdrawn. The amounts of
the filing fee and the fee for examination of the formal requirements are
indicated in Annex BG.I.

The applicant of a patent application may also file an application for utility
model registration for the same invention, subject to the provisions of
Article 73(5), invoking the filing date and the priority date of the patent
application.

BG.18 CONVERSION

BGL Art. 47a  
Up to the grant of a patent an application for a patent may be converted into
an application for a utility model registration.

##  Annexes

Annex BG.I - Fees

Patents

Filing fee 3

40 BGN

Fee for publication of the application

70 BGN

Examination fee: 3

— for one invention

With effect from 2 March 2021 180 BGN

— for a group of inventions

180 BGN

Claims fee for each claim in excess of 10

With effect from 2 March 2021 0 BGN

Fee for priority claims

per priority 20 BGN

Fee for grant

70 BGN

Fee for publication of the patent:

— for the patent specification, claims and drawings:

— up to 10 pages

80 BGN

— for each page in excess of 10

10 BGN

Fee for publication of the granted patent (independent claims included)

50 BGN

Appeal fee against: 3

(a) a decision to fully or partially refuse the grant of a patent:

— for one invention

180 BGN

— for a group of two inventions

280 BGN

(b) a decision to terminate the application proceedings

90 BGN

Annual fees:

— for the 1st to 3rd year

With effect from 2 March 2021, per year 40 BGN

— for the 4th year

40 BGN

— for the 5th year

140 BGN

— for the 6th year

180 BGN

— for the 7th year

220 BGN

— for the 8th year

270 BGN

— for the 9th year

380 BGN

— for the 10th year

500 BGN

— for the 11th year

600 BGN

— for the 12th year

700 BGN

— for the 13th year

800 BGN

— for the 14th year

900 BGN

— for the 15th year

1,000 BGN

— for the 16th year

1,100 BGN

— for the 17th year

1,200 BGN

— for the 18th year

1,300 BGN

— for the 19th year

1,500 BGN

— for the 20th year

1,700 BGN

Renewal fee

450 BGN

Other fees:

Publication of patent description, claims or abstract in the Official
Bulletin:

— up to 10 pages

80 BGN

— for each page after the 10th

10 BGN

Utility models

Filing fee 3

40 BGN

Fee for priority claims

per priority 20 BGN

Examination fee 3

180 BGN

Registration fee

80 BGN

Fee for grant

45 BGN

Appeal fee against:

(a) a decision to fully or partially refuse the registration of a utility
model

140 BGN

(b) a decision to suspend the registration proceedings

90 BGN

Other fees:

Publication in the Official Bulletin of independent claims for registered
utility models

50 BGN

Extension of registration terms for utility models

50 BGN

— for the 5th to the 7th year

300 BGN

— for the 8th to the 10h year

400 BGN

How can payment of fees be effected?

All payments of fees must be effected by the applicants to the Patent Office
of the Republic of Bulgaria in Bulgarian leva to the :

Bulgarian National Bank–Central Office  
IBAN  
BG90 BNBG 9661 3100170901

BIC  
BNBGBGSD

Fees paid to this account are regarded as being received by the Office at the
date on which the Bulgarian National Bank credits the money to the account of
the Office

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex BG.II - Declaration concerning the identity of the
inventor](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_bg.pdf)

[Annex BG.III - Power of
attorney](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_bg.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office.  
2 ^ a b This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  
3 ^ a b c d e The application, examination and appeal fees are reduced by 50%
where the applicant is the inventor, a State educational institution, an
academic research organization, a budgetary organization or a small or medium-
sized enterprise  

Change(s) as of 1 January 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

International filing fee:

1,381 EUR

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

208 EUR

  

Close

Current version applicable from 1 Jan 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

