####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
BN - Useful informationBN - International PhaseBN - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationBN - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeBN - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialBN - National PhaseBN - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseBN - The procedure in the national PhaseBN - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide BN - Brunei Darussalam  
Brunei Darussalam Intellectual Property Office (BruIPO)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **15 September 2023**

(published on 15 September 2023)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
From now on, you will find here a summary of changes to each new version of
the PCT Applicant's Guide, as well as the detailed list of these changes.
Moreover, you can now easily access the historical versions of the Guide.  
  
ANNEXES: National Fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for BN - Brunei Darussalam Intellectual Property Office \(BruIPO\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Brunei Darussalam Intellectual Property Office (BruIPO)

PO: Patents Order, 2011

PR: Patents Rules, 2012

List of currencies used in this document:

BND (Brunei dollar), CHF (Swiss franc)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=BN).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Friday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Brunei Darussalam

Two-letter code:

[BN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BN&doc-lang=EN)

Brunei Darussalam - Brunei Darussalam Intellectual Property Office (BruIPO)

Name of Office:

Brunei Darussalam Intellectual Property Office (BruIPO)

Location:

The Law Building  
Ground Floor  
Jalan Raja Isteri Pengiran Anak Hajah Saleha  
Bandar Seri Begawan BA1910  
Brunei Darussalam

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(673) 222 59 19

E-mail:

enquiries@bruipo.gov.bn

Website:

<http://www.bruipo.gov.bn/SitePages/Home.aspx>

Facsimile:

(673) 238 05 45

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by e-mail

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes,

within 14 days from the date of the transmission

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

Yes

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[BN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BN&doc-lang=EN)

Brunei Darussalam - Brunei Darussalam Intellectual Property Office (BruIPO)

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[BN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BN&doc-lang=EN)

Brunei Darussalam - Brunei Darussalam Intellectual Property Office (BruIPO)

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Patents

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished later. If not already complied with
within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office
will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit
of two months from the date of the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Brunei Darussalam

Language in which international applications may be filed:

English

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Same as above

Language in which the request may be filed:

English

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

3

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

For the relevant notifications by the Office, refer to Official Notices (PCT
Gazette) dated 14 January 2016, pages 9 _et seq._ and 11 August 2022, page
220.

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies both the “unintentional” and the “due care” criteria
to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[JP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JP&doc-lang=EN)

Japan - Japan Patent Office (JPO)

,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

1,

[JP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JP&doc-lang=EN)

Japan - Japan Patent Office (JPO)

1,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

1

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

150 BND

International filing fee:

Equivalent in BND of 1,330 CHF

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

Equivalent in BND of 15 CHF

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

Equivalent in BND of 200 CHF

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

Equivalent in BND of 300 CHF

Search fee:

Equivalent in BND of the search fee payable to the International Searching
Authority chosen by the applicant:  
Refer to  
Annex D(AU)  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(JP)  
Annex D(KR)  
Annex D(SG)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

50 BND

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

500 BND

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, but an address for service in Brunei Darussalam is required

Who can act as agent?

Any natural or legal person resident in Brunei Darussalam

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Where an agent or common representative who is not indicated on the request
form at the time of filing performs any action after filing; or where it is
unclear that an agent or common representative has power to act on behalf of
the applicant

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Where an agent or common representative who is not indicated on the request
form at the time of filing performs any action after filing; or where it is
unclear that an agent or common representative has power to act on behalf of
the applicant

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

None

— any additional indications:

None

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

None

Additional information

The applicant may request that a sample only be made available to an expert
before the patent is granted or if the application has been withdrawn, or has
been treated as having been abandoned, has been refused or is treated as
having been refused. The applicant should make such requests to the
International Bureau in writing before completion of technical preparations
for publication of the international application.

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date

Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s): 2

English

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase: 2

Under PCT Article 22: Description,

claims (if amended, both as originally filed and as amended, together with any
statement under PCT Article 19) 3,

any text matter of drawings,

abstract 4

  

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description,

claims,

any text matter of drawings,

abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)
3 4

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

Yes

National fees:

Filing fee 2

160 BND

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application 5 6

Evidence of entitlement to apply for or be granted a patent 5 6

Evidence of entitlement to claim priority of earlier application 5 6

Document evidencing a change of name of the applicant if the change occurred
after the international filing date 6

Address for service in Brunei Darussalam if the applicant is not resident in
Brunei Darussalam

Instrument appointing the agent (authorization or power of attorney)

Furnishing, where applicable, of a nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence
listing in electronic form

Who can act as agent?

Any natural or legal person resident in Brunei Darussalam

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies both the “unintentional” and the “due care” criteria
to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

BN.01 FORM FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

The Office has available a special form for entering the national phase (refer
to Annex BN.II). This form should preferably (but need not) be used.

BN.02 TRANSLATION

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as originally
filed (refer to National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

BN.03 TRANSLATION (TIME LIMITS)

PR Sec. 92(6)  
If the applicant pays the filing fee, but fails to file the translation, a
notification will be sent by the Office requesting the filing of the required
translation within two months from the date of the notification.

BN.04 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex BN.I.

BN.05 ADDRESS FOR SERVICE

If the applicant is not resident in Brunei Darussalam, an address for service
in Brunei Darussalam must be given.

BN.06 APPOINTMENT OF AN AGENT

If the applicant is represented by an agent, a power of attorney is required
(Annex BN.III).

BN.07 THE INVENTOR

The name and address of the inventor should be indicated. If the applicant
fails to provide these, the Office will invite the applicant to comply.

BN.08 ANNUAL FEES

PR Sec. 54(1)  
Annual fees are payable for the fifth and each subsequent year following the
international filing date. Payment must be made before the expiration of the
month containing the anniversary of the international filing date. Payment of
annual fees may still be made within three months from the due date, subject
to the payment of a surcharge. The amounts of these fees are indicated in
Annex BN.I.

BN.09 EXAMINATION

PO Sec. 29(2)(b),  PR Sec. 39  
A patent will be granted only after substantive examination which must be
requested by the applicant. The request for examination must be made in
English using Patents Form 12 (Request for a search and examination report) or
Patents Form 11 (Request for a search report) and/or Patents Form 16 (Request
for an examination report) (Annexes BN.IV-VI).

Examination must be requested within 42 months from the international filing
date.

Within the time limit for requesting examination, a fee for requesting
examination must be paid. Processing of the request for examination will only
start after the fee for examination has been paid. The amount of the fee is
indicated in Annex BN.I.

BN.10 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41  
The applicant may, at any time before the patent is granted, make amendments
to the application, provided that the amendment does not go beyond the
original disclosure. The amount of the fee is indicated in Annex BN.I.

BN.11 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase.

BN.12 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2),  PCT Rule 82 _bis_  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.

BN.13 REINSTATEMENT OF RIGHTS

PO Sec. 40,  PR Sec. 58,  PCT Rule 49.6  
Reinstatement of rights may be requested where the applicant unintentionally
or in spite of due care required by the circumstances having been taken,
failed to perform the acts referred to in Article 22 within the applicable
time limit. A request for reinstatement must be presented in writing within
two months from the removal of the cause of the failure to observe the time
limit or twelve months from the date of expiration of the applicable time
limit, whichever time limit expires earlier. Within the said two months, the
omitted action must be completed and the fee for reinstatement of rights
(refer to Annex BN.I) must be paid.

##  Annexes

Annex BN.I - Fees

Filing fee

160 BND

Request for examination

1,100 BND

Request for search and examination

2,600 BND

Fee for amendment of the application

100 BND

Reinstatement fee

500 BND

Restoration fee

500 BND

Annual fees:

— for the 5th to the 7th years

per year 160 BND

— for the 8th to the 10th years

per year 270 BND

— for the 11th to the 13th years

per year 350 BND

— for the 14th to the 16th years

per year 450 BND

— for the 17th to the 19th years

per year 550 BND

— for the 20th year

650 BND

Surcharge for late payment of annual fees:

— not exceeding one month

50 BND

— each additional month (but not exceeding six months)

100 BND

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of the fees has to be effected in Brunei dollars. All payments
must indicate the application number (national, if already known;
international, if the national application number is not yet known), the name
of the applicant and the category of fee being paid

Payment may be effected to the Office by cash, cheque or bank draft. Payments
by bank transfer should be made to the following bank:

Account name  
Government of Brunei Darussalam

Bank  
Baiduri Bank Berhad

Account No.  
02-08-111-27888

Address  
Baiduri Bank Headquarters  
No. 1 Jalan Gadong  
Bandar Seri Begawan  
Brunei Muara  
BA1511  
Brunei Darussalam

Swift Code  
BAIDBNBB

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex BN.II - Request for the grant of a patent (Patents Form
1)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_bn.pdf)

[Annex BN.III - Power of attorney (Patents Form
46)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_bn.pdf)

[Annex BN.IV - Request for a search and examination report (Patents Form
12)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_IV_bn.pdf)

[Annex BN.V - Request for a search report (Patents Form
11)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_V_bn.pdf)

[Annex BN.VI - Request for an examination report (Patents Form
16)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_VI_bn.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a b c The Office is competent only if the international search is or has
been carried out by that Office.  
2 ^ a b c Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1).  
3 ^ a b Where the applicant furnishes a translation of the international
application only as amended or only as originally filed, the Office will
invite the applicant to furnish the missing translation.  
4 ^ a b The translation of the abstract is only required if the international
application has not yet been published.  
5 ^ a b c This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration
has been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  
6 ^ a b c d If not already complied with within the time limit applicable
under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply
with the requirement within a time limit of two months from the date of
receipt of the invitation.  

Change(s) as of 15 September 2023 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference.
Mouse hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annexes

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of the fees has to be effected in Brunei dollars. All payments
must indicate the application number (national, if already known;
international, if the national application number is not yet known), the name
of the applicant and the category of fee being paid

Payment may be effected to the Office by cash, cheque or bank draft. Payments
by bank transfer should be made to the following bank:

Account name  
Government of Brunei Darussalam

Bank  
Baiduri Bank Berhad

Account No.  
02-08-111-27888

Address  
Baiduri Bank Headquarters  
No. 1 Jalan Gadong  
Bandar Seri Begawan  
Brunei Muara  
BA1511  
Brunei Darussalam

Swift Code  
BAIDBNBB

  

Close

Current version applicable from 15 Sep 2023 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

