####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
BW - Useful informationBW - International PhaseBW - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationBW - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeBW - National PhaseBW - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseBW - The procedure in the national PhaseBW - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide BW - Botswana  
Companies and Intellectual Property Authority (CIPA) (Botswana)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **1 March 2024**

(published on 1 February 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
RO: RO fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 1 Jan 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for BW - Companies and Intellectual Property Authority \(CIPA\)
\(Botswana\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Companies and Intellectual Property Authority (CIPA) (Botswana)

IP Act: Industrial Property Act, 2010

List of currencies used in this document:

BWP (Pula), USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=BW).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Botswana

Two-letter code:

[BW](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BW&doc-lang=EN)

Botswana - Companies and Intellectual Property Authority (CIPA) (Botswana)

Name of Office:

Companies and Intellectual Property Authority (CIPA) (Botswana)

Location:

Plot 181  
Kgale Mews  
Gaborone  
Botswana

Mailing address:

P.O. Box 102  
Gaborone  
Botswana

Telephone:

(267) 318 87 54  
(267) 367 37 00

E-mail:

feedback@cipa.co.bw

Website:

<http://www.cipa.co.bw>

Facsimile:

(267) 318 81 30

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes,

within one month from the date of the transmission, without invitation

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[AP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AP&doc-lang=EN)

African Regional Intellectual Property Organization - African Regional
Intellectual Property Organization (ARIPO)

,

[BW](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BW&doc-lang=EN)

Botswana - Companies and Intellectual Property Authority (CIPA) (Botswana)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: BW

ARIPO protection: AP

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents

Utility model certificates

ARIPO:

Patents

Utility models (a utility model may be sought instead of or in addition to an
ARIPO patent)

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

For national protection

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If the data concerning the inventor are missing at the
expiration of the time limit under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will
invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit of two
months from the date of receipt of the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

No

For an ARIPO patent

Refer to [Annex B(AP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=AP&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Botswana

Language in which international applications may be filed:

English

Language in which the request may be filed:

English

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

3

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, please refer to the Office for the applicable criteria and/or any fee
payable for such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

32 USD

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EP)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

Please refer to the Office

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Botswana  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any attorney or lawyer registered in Botswana

Waiver of power of attorney:

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Refer to the Office

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Refer to the Office

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(3): 31 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

English

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended), any text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

Patents

Application fee

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

150 BWP 1

300 BWP 2

Annual fee for the 1st year

30 BWP 1

60 BWP 2

Utility model certificates

Application fee

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

90 BWP 1

180 BWP 2

Annual fee for the 1st year

50 BWP 1

100 BWP 2

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

Reductions of the national fee are indicated under “National fee” above.

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not a resident of Botswana 3

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application 4 5

Evidence of entitlement to file where the applicant is not the inventor 4 5

Document evidencing a change of name or person of the applicant if the change
occurred after the international filing date and has not been reflected in a
notification from the International Bureau (Form PCT/IB/306) 5

Who can act as agent?

Any attorney or lawyer registered in Botswana

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

BW.01 FORM FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

The Office has available a special form for entering the national phase (refer
to Annex BW.II). This form should preferably (but need not) be used.

BW.02 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

BW.03 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex BW.I.

BW.04 EXAMINATION

IP Act Sec. 22,  IP Act Sec. 23  
All applications shall be examined prior to grant of a patent. Substantive
examination of the patent application will be carried out by the African
Regional Intellectual Property Organization (ARIPO).

BW.05 POWER OF ATTORNEY

IP Act Sec. 130  
An agent must be appointed by filing a power of attorney if the applicant is
not a resident of Botswana. If a power of attorney is not filed at the time of
entry into the national phase, it may be filed within one month from the date
of filing of the application. The Registrar may, upon request by the
applicant, extend the time for filing the power of attorney.

BW.06 ANNUAL FEES

IP Act Sec. 28  
Annual fees are payable for the first and each subsequent year following the
international filing date. Annual fees are due on the eve of each anniversary
of the international filing date. Payment of annual fees may still be made
within 6 months from the due date, subject to the payment of a surcharge. The
amounts of the annual fees and the surcharge fee for late payment are
indicated in Annex BW.I.

BW.07 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION

IP Act Sec. 13  
The applicant may, at any time before the patent is granted, make amendments
to his application, provided that the amendment does not go beyond the
original disclosure. Any amendment shall be subject to the payment of a fee
(refer to Annex BW.I).

BW.08 FEE FOR GRANT

A fee for grant must be paid (refer to Annex BW.I).

BW.09 CONVERSION

IP Act Sec. 18,  IP Act Sec. 44  
An international application for a patent may be converted into a utility
model, and _vice versa_ , after the applicant has complied with the
requirements for entry into the national phase. Conversion may be requested at
any time before the grant or refusal of a patent. The conversion is subject to
the payment of a fee indicated in Annex BW.I.

BW.10 PATENT TERM

IP Act Sec. 28  
The patent term expires at the end of 20 years from the filing date

BW.11 RESTORATION OF THE RIGHT OF PRIORITY

IP Act Sec. 17(8)  
A request for the restoration of the right of priority may be filed with the
Office where the applicant, in spite of all due care required by the
circumstances, failed to timely file the international application within the
priority period (refer to National Phase, paragraphs 6.006 - 6.011).

##  Annexes

Annex BW.I - Fees

Fees are reduced by 50% if the applicant is an individual or a small entity
whose number of employees does not exceed 100 persons

Patents

Application fee

300 BWP

Annual fees:

— for the 1st year

60 BWP

— for the 2nd year

240 BWP

— for the 3rd year

300 BWP

— for the 4th year

340 BWP

— for the 5th year

400 BWP

— for the 6th year

440 BWP

— for the 7th year

480 BWP

— for the 8th year

540 BWP

— for the 9th year

580 BWP

— for the 10th year

640 BWP

— for the 11th year

680 BWP

— for the 12th year

720 BWP

— for the 13th year

780 BWP

— for the 14th year

820 BWP

— for the 15th year

880 BWP

— for the 16th year

920 BWP

— for the 17th year

960 BWP

— for the 18th year

1,020 BWP

— for the 19th year

1,060 BWP

— for the 20th year

1,120 BWP

Surcharge for late payment of annual fees

100 BWP

Grant and publication fee

300 BWP

Fee for amendment of application

40 BWP

Fee for conversion of an application for a patent into an application for a
utility model and _vice versa_

140 BWP

Utility models

Application fee

180 BWP

Annual fees:

— for the 1st year

100 BWP

— for the 2nd year

120 BWP

— for the 3rd year

140 BWP

— for the 4th year

160 BWP

— for the 5th year

180 BWP

— for the 6th year

200 BWP

— for the 7th year

220 BWP

Surcharge for late payment of annual fees

100 BWP

Grant and publication fee

300 BWP

Fee for amendment of application

40 BWP

Fee for conversion of an application for a patent into an application for a
utility model and _vice versa_

140 BWP

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of fees to the Office must be effected in Botswana pula. All
payments must indicate the application number, the name of the applicant and
the type of fee being paid.

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex BW.II - Request for entry into the national
phase](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_bw.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a b c d Applicable in case of filing by individuals and small entities
whose number of employees does not exceed 100 persons.  
2 ^ a b c d Applicable in case of filing by companies other than small
entities.  
3 ^ a If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.  
4 ^ a b This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  
5 ^ a b c If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under
PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with
the requirement within two months from the date of the invitation.  

Change(s) as of 1 March 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Close

Current version applicable from 1 Mar 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

