####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
BY - Useful informationBY - International PhaseBY - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationBY - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeBY - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialBY - National PhaseBY - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseBY - The procedure in the national PhaseBY - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide BY - Belarus  
National Center of Intellectual Property (Belarus)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **1 March 2024**

(published on 1 February 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
RO: RO fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 1 Jan 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for BY - National Center of Intellectual Property \(Belarus\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: National Center of Intellectual Property (Belarus)

BPL: Belarus Law on Patents for Inventions, Utility Models and Industrial
Designs (as revised on 18 December 2017, effective from 7 July 2018)

BDEDR: Regulations on Application Drafting Procedure for an Invention Patent,
Application Examination and Decision Making upon Results of the Examination
(effective from 3 February 2011)

BTC: Belarus Taxation Code (as revised on 9 January 2017)

List of currencies used in this document:

BYN (Belarussian Ruble), USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=BY).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Article 64(5)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Belarus

Two-letter code:

[BY](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BY&doc-lang=EN)

Belarus - National Center of Intellectual Property (Belarus)

Name of Office:

National Center of Intellectual Property (Belarus)

Location:

20, ul. Kozlova  
220034 Minsk  
Belarus

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(375-17) 272 46 96

E-mail:

icd@ncip.by  
ncip@ncip.by

Website:

<http://www.ncip.by>

Facsimile:

(375-17) 272 97 51

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes, within 14 days from the date of the transmission

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

provided that the delivery service is:  
DHL  
Federal Express  
TNT

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[BY](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BY&doc-lang=EN)

Belarus - National Center of Intellectual Property (Belarus)

,

[EA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EA&doc-lang=EN)

Eurasian Patent Organization - Eurasian Patent Office (EAPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Law on Patents for Inventions, Utility Models and Industrial Designs, Article
32

Yes

Filing restrictions apply to:

Applications by natural or legal persons having a residence or principal place
of business in Belarus

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: BY

Eurasian patent: EA

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents

Utility models

Eurasian:

Patents

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a national patent:

After international publication, the furnishing of a translation into Russian
or, if the international application was filed in Russian, of a copy of the
application as filed, gives the applicant provisional protection in the sense
that he, upon grant of the patent, is entitled to damages.

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a Eurasian patent:

After the international publication (if in Russian) or, where that publication
was in a language other than Russian, after the publication by the EAPO of the
translation into Russian of the international application, the applicant is
entitled to provisional protection in conformity with the national
legislation.

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

For national protection

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If the data concerning the inventor are missing at the
expiration of the time limit under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will
invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit of two
months from the date of receipt of the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

For a Eurasian patent

Refer to [Annex B(EA)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=EA&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Belarus

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3).

English,

Russian

Language in which the request may be filed:

English,

Russian

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

2

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies the “unintentional” criterion to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EA&doc-lang=EN)

Eurasian Patent Organization - Eurasian Patent Office (EAPO)

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EA&doc-lang=EN)

Eurasian Patent Organization - Eurasian Patent Office (EAPO)

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

1,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

For residents of Belarus, the payment of fees shall be effected in Belarusian
rouble in accordance with the rate of the base value

For non-residents of Belarus the payment of fees shall be effected in US
dollar, euro, Swiss franc or Russian rouble, unless otherwise provided for by
international agreements with the Republic of Belarus, in accordance with the
rate of the base value and the exchange rate established by the National Bank
of the Republic of Belarus applicable on the date of payment

Transmittal fee:

98 BYN

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EA)  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(RU)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

For further details refer to the “Patent Information Services, Price List”
(page 6, items 1.1 and 1.3) at <https://www.ncip.by/en/uslugi-i-
informaciya/patentno-informacionnye-uslugi/>

— for each copy of priority document up to 35 pages

42 BYN

— for each page of one copy in excess of 35 pages

plus 1.20 BYN

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

200 BYN

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No

Who can act as agent?

Any patent attorney registered to practice before the Office

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Where there is a change in representation, that is, where any action before
the Office is performed by an agent or a common representative who was not
indicated on the request form at the time of filing

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Where there is a change in representation, that is, where any action before
the Office is performed by an agent or a common representative who was not
indicated on the request form at the time of filing

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

The name of the depositary institution and the accession number at the time of
filing (must be in the description)

— any additional indications:

None

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

None

Additional information

For the purposes of patent procedure before the National Center of
Intellectual Property (Belarus), a deposit may be made not later than the
priority date of the international application with any international or
Belarusian depositary institution specialized for that purpose.

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(3): 31 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished within two months from the expiration of the time limit
applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)

Belarussian,

Russian

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished within two months from the expiration of the time limit
applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)

The Request is not required if the form for entry into the national phase is
used

Under PCT Article 22: Request, description, claims (if amended, both as
originally filed and as amended together with any statement under PCT Article
19), any text matter of drawings

Under PCT Article 39(1): Request, description, claims, any text matter of
drawings (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

A copy is required only if the Office has not received a copy of the
international application from the International Bureau under PCT Article 20.
This may be the case where the applicant expressly requests an earlier start
of the national phase under PCT Article 23(2) or 40(2).

National fees:

For residents of Belarus, the payment of fees shall be effected in Belarusian
rouble in accordance with the rate of the base value

For non-residents of Belarus the payment of fees shall be effected in US
dollar, euro, Swiss franc or Russian rouble, unless otherwise provided for by
international agreements with the Republic of Belarus, in accordance with the
rate of the base value and the exchange rate established by the National Bank
of the Republic of Belarus applicable on the date of payment

Patents

Filing fee

If not already paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or
39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to pay within a time limit of two
months from the date of entry into the national phase

98 BYN

Claim fee for each independent claim in excess of one

42 BYN

Examination fee

476 BYN

Claim examination fee for each independent claim in excess of one

280 BYN

Annual fee for the 3rd year

98 BYN

Utility models

Filing fee

If not already paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or
39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to pay within a time limit of two
months from the date of entry into the national phase

196 BYN

Claim fee for each independent claim in excess of one

98 BYN

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

The examination fee is reduced by 50% where an international search report or
an international preliminary examination report has been established

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

Instrument of assignment of the priority right where the applicants are not
identical 2

Translation of the international application to be furnished in two copies 3

Verification of translation 3

Who can act as agent?

Any patent attorney registered to practice before the Office

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies the “unintentional” criterion to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

BY.01 FORM FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

BPL Art. 13,  BPL Art. 14,  BDEDR Sec. 306.1  
The Office has available special forms for entering the national phase (refer
to Annex BY.II and BY.III). These forms should preferably be used.

BY.02 TRANSLATION (VERIFICATION)

BDEDR Sec. 308  
The required verification of the translation of the international application
into Russian or Belarusian consists of a simple statement signed by the
applicant or by his agent.

BY.03 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

BY.04 REPRESENTATION

BPL Art. 12,  BDEDR Sec. 18  
Any patent attorney registered to practice before the Office may represent the
applicant. The patent attorney may be appointed before entry into the national
phase or during the application proceedings.

BY.05 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

BPL Art. 31,  BTC Art. 262,  Sec 1.1,  Sec 1.2  
The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex BY.I.

BY.06 CLAIMS FEE

BDEDR Sec. 283  
The claims fee must be computed on the basis of the number of claims valid at
the beginning of the national phase (i.e., where amendments have been filed,
the claims as amended under PCT Article 19 or 34(2) or the claims as submitted
by the applicant under PCT Article 28 or 41 upon entering the national phase).
Where the applicant fails to pay the correct amount of the claims fee upon
entering the national phase, the Office will invite him to pay the missing
amount within two months from the date on which he has received the
invitation.

BY.07 REQUEST FOR EXAMINATION

BPL Art. 21,  BDEDR Sec. 317  
A patent will be granted only after examination as to substance which must be
requested by the applicant or by any interested party. There is no special
form for the request.

BY.08 TIME LIMIT FOR REQUESTING EXAMINATION

BPL Art. 21,  BDEDR Sec. 318  
Examination must be requested within three years from the international filing
date. That period may not be extended or reinstated. If the request for
examination is not received within that said period, the decision to refuse
the grant of a patent is made.

BY.09 FEE FOR REQUESTING EXAMINATION

BPL Art. 31,  BDEDR Sec. 321,  BTC Art. 262,  Sec. 1.1.5,  Art. 263,  Sec. 2  
The request for examination is only effective if a fee for requesting
examination has been paid. The amount of the said fee is indicated in Annex
BY.I. It is reduced by 50% where an international search report or an
international preliminary examination report has been established.

BY.10 FEE FOR GRANT

BPL Art. 31,  BTC Art. 264,  Sec. 6.8  
A fee for grant must be paid within two months after receipt by the applicant
of the decision to grant the patent. The amount of the fee is indicated in
Annex BY.I. The fee for grant must be paid on the expiry of a specified
period, but not later than six months from the date of expiry. In the latter
case, the fee is increased by 50%.

BY.11 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  BPL Art. 18,  BDEDR Sec. 239  
Subject to payment of the prescribed fee, the applicant has the right to amend
the claims, the description and the drawing(s) of his own volition, provided
that the scope of the subject matter of the application is not broadened
thereby, until the final decision of the Office to grant or reject the patent.
The amount of the fee for amendment is indicated in Annex BY.I.

BY.12 MAINTENANCE FEES

BPL Art. 31(3),  BTC Art. 264,  Sec. 6.9  
After a patent has been granted, maintenance fees must be paid for maintaining
the patent in force. They are payable for the third and each subsequent year
following the international filing date. The maintenance fee for each
subsequent year must be paid within the current paid year of the patent’s
term. Payment can still be made, upon filing a request for extension of time
together with a 50% surcharge for late payment, within six months calculated
from the beginning of the next unpaid year of the patent’s term. The amounts
of maintenance fees are indicated in Annex BY.I.

BY.13 REQUEST FOR EARLIER START OF THE NATIONAL PHASE

PCT Art. 23(2),  PCT Art. 40(2),  BDEDR Sec. 304  
If the applicant wishes the processing and the examination of his application
to start before the expiration of the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22(3) or 39(1)(b), he must submit an express request therefor to the Office
and at the same time furnish a copy of the international application and
comply with the acts prescribed for entering the national phase.

BY.14 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2),  BPL Art. 27,  BTC Art. 262,  Sec 1.8.10  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.
Reinstatement may be requested where the applicant, due to legitimate reasons,
has failed to comply with a time limit before the Office and non-compliance is
prejudicial to his rights. A request for reinstatement of rights must be
presented not later than one year from the expiration of the time limit which
has not been complied with. Within the said period the omitted act must be
performed, the fee for reinstatement of rights must be paid (refer to Annex
BY.I) and the request must state the facts which justify the reinstatement.

BY.15 EXTENSION FEE

BPL Art. 19,  Sec. 5,  Art. 21.3,  BTC Art. 262,  Sec 1.1.9  
The applicant may, against payment of an extension fee indicated in Annex
BY.I, file a request for extension of a time limit for response fixed by the
Examiner for a certain procedure before the Office. The request and extension
fee must be filed within three months from the date on which the invitation to
the applicant to take action was sent. The filing of the request and extension
fee will extend the time limit for response by up to three months in case of
preliminary examination and to 12 months in case of patent examination from
the date of filing the extension request and depending on the amount of the
extension fee paid.

BY.16 REINSTATEMENT OF RIGHTS

PCT Rule 49.6,  PCT Rule 82 _bis_ ,  BDEDR Sec. 305,  BTC Art. 262,  Sec.
1.1.13  
In the case of failure to perform the acts referred to in PCT Article 22
within the applicable time limit, the applicant may obtain reinstatement of
his rights by presenting a request to that effect and performing the omitted
acts within 12 months from the date of expiration of the applicable time limit
under PCT Article 22, and by paying a prescribed reinstatement fee (refer to
Annex BY.I).

BY.17

BPL Art. 35,  BTC Art. 262,  Sec. 1.1.15  
If a patent ceases through non-payment of maintenance fees and its term of
validity has not yet expired, the patent may be restored upon request of the
patent owner and payment of a patent restoration fee (refer to Annex BY.I) and
the maintenance fee arrears.

BY.18 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51,  BPL Art. 25  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. If, upon review under PCT Article 25, the Office denies an
error or omission on the part of the receiving Office or the International
Bureau, an appeal against this decision may be lodged with the Board of Appeal
of the Office within one year from the date of receipt of the decision. The
ruling of the Appeal Board may be appealed against to a court of justice
within six months from the date of its receipt.

BY.19 UTILITY MODEL

PCT Rule 49 _bis_ ,  BPL Art. 14  
If, upon entering the national phase in Belarus, the applicant wishes the
international application to be treated as an application for the grant of a
utility model, he must use a special form to that effect (refer to Annex
BY.III).

BY.20

BPL Art. 23  
If the international application is for a utility model, the requirements for
the national phase are basically the same as for patents, except that the
applicant is not required to make a request for substantive examination.

BY.21 MAINTENANCE FEE FOR A UTILITY MODEL

BPL Art. 1,  BPL Art. 3,  BTC Art. 262,  Sec. 1.2.8  
Maintenance fees for a utility model are payable for each year of the utility
model’s term, starting with the first year counted from the international
filing date. The first maintenance fee must be paid jointly with the grant
fee. After the expiration of five years, the term of a utility model may be
extended by the Office, at the request of the owner of the utility model, for
a period not exceeding five years. This request must be accompanied by a
utility model renewal fee.

BY.22 CONVERSION

BPL Art. 26,  BTC Art. 262,  Sec. 1.2.7  
The applicant may, prior to publication of the particulars of a patent
application, but not later than the date on which he has received the decision
to grant a patent, convert the said application into a utility model
application by filing a request to that effect with the Office. The utility
model application may be converted into a patent application at any time
before the applicant has received the decision to grant a patent for utility
model or, if the decision to refuse the grant of a patent for utility model is
taken, before the expiration of the time limit for lodging an appeal against
that decision. The converted application will have the priority date and the
filing date of the initial application.

##  Annexes

Annex BY.I - Fees

For residents of Belarus, the payment of fees shall be effected in Belarusian
rouble in accordance with the rate of the base value

For non-residents of Belarus the payment of fees shall be effected in US
dollar, euro, Swiss franc or Russian rouble, unless otherwise provided for by
international agreements with the Republic of Belarus, in accordance with the
rate of the base value and the exchange rate established by the National Bank
of the Republic of Belarus applicable on the date of payment

Patents

Filing fee

98 BYN

Claim fee for each independent claim in excess of one

42 BYN

Examination fee (reduced by 50% where an international search report or an
international preliminary examination report has been established)

476 BYN

Claim examination fee for each independent claim in excess of one

280 BYN

Fee for amendment

42 BYN

Fee for grant

196 BYN

Maintenance fees:

— for the 1st and the 2nd years, per year

None

— for the 3rd and the 4th years, per year

98 BYN

— for the 5th and the 6th years, per year

140 BYN

— for the 7th and the 8th years, per year

196 BYN

— for the 9th and the 10th years, per year

238 BYN

— for the 11th and the 12th years, per year

280 BYN

— for the 13th and the 14th years, per year

336 BYN

— for the 15th and the 16th years, per year

378 BYN

— for the 17th and the 18th years, per year

434 BYN

— for the 19th and the 20th years, per year

476 BYN

— for the 21st year to the 25th year, per year

644 BYN

Fee for reinstatement of rights (BPL Art. 27)

200 BYN

Fee for reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)

378 BYN

Fee for extension of a time limit for response (per month):

— up to three months

28 BYN

— from three to six months

56 BYN

— above six months

98 BYN

Fee for restoration of the right of priority

200 BYN

Surcharge for late payment of the annual fee

50% of the applicable annual fee

Utility models

Filing fee

196 BYN

Claim fee for each independent claim in excess of one

98 BYN

Fee for grant

196 BYN

Renewal fee

378 BYN

Maintenance fees:

— from the 1st year to the 3rd year, per year

84 BYN

— from the 4th year to the 6th year, per year

112 BYN

— from the 7th to the 10th year, per year

196 BYN

Conversion fee

98 BYN

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of fees shall be effected in Belarusian roubles or in the
equivalent amount in US dollars, euros, Swiss francs or Russian roubles. All
payments must indicate the application number (national, if already known;
international, if the national application number is not yet known), the name
of the applicant and the category of fee being paid

Payment must be effected by transfer to one of the following accounts in:

BYN  
BY04AKBB3603900000082

CHF  
BY49AKBB3603900000079

EUR  
BY84AKBB3603900000109

RUB  
BY50AKBB3603900000066

USD  
BY03AKBB3603900000095

Beneficiary’s name  
National Center of Intellectual Property (Belarus)

Name of bank  
JSC “SB Belarusbank”

Address  
Minsk

BIC/SWIFT Code  
AKBBBY 2X

GCEOR (General Classifier of Enterprises and Organizations)  
00040175

TIN (taxpayer’s identification number)  
190310695

Non-residents should refer to correspondent banks for payment of fees and
duties

The list of accounts of JSC “SB Belarusbank” correspondent banks is available
at the Office’s website (refer to: List of correspondent accounts “Nostro” at
<https://belarusbank.by/en/10582/10926>)

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex BY.II - National processing request form for
patents](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_by.pdf)

[Annex BY.III - National processing request form for utility
models](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_by.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office.  
2 ^ a This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  
3 ^ a b Must be furnished within two months from the expiration of the time
limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1).  

Change(s) as of 1 March 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Close

Current version applicable from 1 Mar 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

