####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
CH - Useful informationCH - International PhaseCH - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationCH - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeCH - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialCH - National PhaseCH - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseCH - The procedure in the national PhaseCH - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide CH - Switzerland  
Swiss Federal Institute of Intellectual Property

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **4 April 2024**

(published on 5 April 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
GENERAL INFO: Payment methods  
RO: Electronic filing, Incorporation by reference  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase: National phase,
Restoration of the right of priority, Reinstatement of rights  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Dec 2023, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for CH - Swiss Federal Institute of Intellectual Property)).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Swiss Federal Institute of Intellectual Property

PatG: Federal Law on Patents for Inventions

PatV: Ordinance on Patents for Inventions

List of currencies used in this document:

CHF (Swiss franc)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Switzerland

Two-letter code:

[CH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CH&doc-lang=EN)

Switzerland - Swiss Federal Institute of Intellectual Property

Name of Office:

Swiss Federal Institute of Intellectual Property

Location:

Stauffacherstrasse 65/59g  
CH-3003 Bern  
Switzerland

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(41-31) 377 77 77

E-mail:

info@ipi.ch

Website:

<http://www.ige.ch>

Facsimile:

None

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

For applications filed at their Office on or after 1 December 2023.

Yes the office is prepared to allow applicants to make national patent
applications available to the WIPO DAS

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[CH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CH&doc-lang=EN)

Switzerland - Swiss Federal Institute of Intellectual Property

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: CH (refer to National Phase)

European patent: EP (refer to National Phase)

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National: Patents

European: Patents

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

Payment by invoice or current account with the Office.

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

Sections 126 and 127 of the 1978 Patent Regulations

Provisional protection after international publication:

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a national patent:

The published international patent application gives the applicant, after the
granting of the patent, the right to bring an action for damages. The injured
party may invoke the damages caused by the defendant as from the time at which
the latter became aware of the contents of the international application, but
at the latest as from the date of publication of the application by the
International Bureau (Law of 25 June 1954, as amended on 17 December 1976,
Sec. 137 in relation with Sec. 111)

If the international application has not been published in a Swiss official
language, the date to be taken into consideration for the claim of damages is
that on which the applicant communicated to the defendant a translation of the
claims in a Swiss official language, or made the translation available to the
public through the intermediary of the Swiss Federal Institute of Intellectual
Property (Law of 25 June 1954, as amended on 17 December 1976, Sec. 137 in
relation with Sec. 112).

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a European patent:

The published international application gives the applicant, after the
granting of the European patent, the right to bring an action for damages;
however, any national requirements relating to the translation of the claims
in the application must be met

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished within the time limit applicable
under PCT Article 22 or 39(1); however, continuation of the procedure may be
requested in case of failure to observe that time limit

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

For a European patent

Refer to [Annex B(EP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=ep&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

[CH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CH&doc-lang=EN)

Switzerland - Swiss Federal Institute of Intellectual Property

,

[LI](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=LI&doc-lang=EN)

Liechtenstein - Refer to Swiss Federal Institute of Intellectual Property

Language in which international applications may be filed:

English,

French,

German

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

English,

French,

German,

or English and another filing language

Language in which the request may be filed:

English,

French,

German

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”)

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
If the receiving Office does not accept international applications in
electronic form in such format, the international application will be
transmitted to the International Bureau as receiving Office (PCT Rule
19.4(a)(ii-_bis_)).

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 15 June 2017, pages 89 _et seq._ and 10 November 2022,
pages 298 _et seq._

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

No

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

100 CHF

International filing fee:

1,330 CHF

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

15 CHF

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

200 CHF

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

300 CHF

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EP)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

None

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

500 CHF

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No

Who can act as agent?

Any natural or legal person resident in Switzerland or having an address for
service in Switzerland.

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

None

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

None

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

None

— any additional indications:

None

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

None

Additional information

Deposits may also be made for the purposes of patent procedure before the
Swiss Federal Institute of Intellectual Property with FIB, IFO and IAM
(<https://www.ige.ch/>). The furnishing of samples to a third party may be
subject to the condition that that party indicates to the depositary
institution its name and address for the purpose of information of the
depositor and undertakes: (a) not to make available the deposited culture or a
culture derived from it to a third party; (b) not to use the culture outside
the purview of the law; (c) to produce, in case of a dispute, evidence that
the obligations under items (a) and (b) have not been violated.

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes, the Office permits reinstatement of rights under the "due care"
criterion.

Reinstatement fee

500 CHF

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

French,

German,

Italian

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended), any text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings (if
any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and as amended
by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

No

National fees:

Must be paid within three months from the date of filing

Filing fee

200 CHF

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application 1 2

Address for service in Switzerland or appointment of an agent if the applicant
is not resident in Switzerland or Liechtenstein 3

Who can act as agent?

Where the applicant has neither a residence nor a principal place of business
in Switzerland, an address for service in Switzerland must be indicated
(article 13 of the Federal Law on Patents for Inventions (PatG) within the
time limit set out in paragraph 1 of article 124 of the Ordinance on Patents
for Inventions (PatV). If no address for service is indicated within that time
limit, the Office will allow an extension of two months to do so. The
application will be refused in case of non-observation of that time limit.

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

CH.01 EFFECT OF A DESIGNATION OF SWITZERLAND OR LIECHTENSTEIN

Under the Patent Treaty between Switzerland and Liechtenstein only a unitary
patent for the two States can be granted; in an international application,
therefore, the designation of either State automatically has the effect of the
designation of both States, which cannot be designated independently from each
other.

CH.02 LANGUAGE OF PROCEEDINGS

PatG Sec. 131(2),  PatV Art. 4(1),  PatV Art. 4(3),  PatV Art. 4(4)  
The language of proceedings is one of the official languages (French, German
or Italian). If the international application has been filed in French or
German, the language of proceedings is French or German, as the case may be;
if not, the language of the translation which is furnished to the Office under
PCT Article 22 or 39(1) is the language of proceedings. The language of
proceedings cannot be changed. Written matter other than the text of the
application is usually accepted in any of the official languages, but the
Office reserves the right to request a translation into the language of
proceedings.

CH.03 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003). If the translation furnished to
the Office is not complete, the Office will invite the applicant to furnish
the missing part and will excuse the late furnishing.

CH.04 NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE INVENTOR; DECLARATION OF INVENTORSHIP

PatG Sec. 138,  PatV Art. 34,  PatV Art. 124(1)  
If the name and address of the inventor have not already been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application, the applicant must furnish
the inventor’s name and address and make a declaration of inventorship on the
form reproduced in Annex CH.II. Certification is not required. The declaration
of inventorship must be written in or translated into one of the official
languages (French, German or Italian) or in English. For time limits, refer to
the Summary.

CH.05 ADDRESS FOR SERVICE

PatG Sec. 13,  PatV Art. 124  
Where the applicant has neither a residence nor a principal place of business
in Switzerland, an address for service in Switzerland must be indicated
(article 13 of the Federal Law on Patents for Inventions (PatG) within the
time limit set out in paragraph 1 of article 124 of the Ordinance on Patents
for Inventions (PatV). If no address for service is indicated within that time
limit, the Office will allow an extension of three months to do so. The
application will be refused in case of non-observation of that time limit.

CH.06 APPOINTMENT OF AN AGENT

PatV Art. 124(3)  
A list of agents is available on the website of the Swiss Federal Institute of
Intellectual Property at: <https://www.ige.ch/en/service/patent-
attorneys/patent-attorney-register.html>

CH.07 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex CH.I.

CH.08 CLAIMS FEE

PatG Sec. 41,  PatV Art. 31(a)  
The claims fee is due before the start of substantive examination, on
invitation and within a time limit fixed by the Office. The ten first claims
made in a patent application are exempted of any fees; a claims fee is due for
each supplementary claim. For the amount of the claims fee, refer to Annex
CH.I.

CH.09 ANNUAL FEES

PatG Sec. 41,  PatV Art. 18  
They are payable for the fourth and each subsequent year following the
international filing date. The payment of the first annual fees is due on the
last day of the month in which falls the fourth anniversary (48 months) of the
international filing date. Thereafter, payment must be made within six months
from the last day of the month in which falls the anniversary of the
international filing date; a supplement for late payment must be paid if the
fee is paid during the last three months. For the amounts, refer to Annex
CH.I.

CH.10 EXAMINATION FEE

PatG Sec. 41,  PatV Art. 61a  
This fee must be paid for each international application. It is due before the
start of the examination as to substance, on invitation and within the time
limit fixed by the Office. Where a request to postpone the examination as to
substance has been made before the invitation or is made within the time limit
for payment, that time limit is extended until the expiration of the
postponement.

CH.11 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION

PCT Art. 28,  PatG Sec. 58(2),  PatG Sec. 59a(1)  
The applicant may amend the description, claims and drawings of the
international application.

CH.12

PatG Sec. 58(2)  
The subject matter of the amended application shall not exceed the scope of
the application as originally filed.

CH.13 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. If, upon review under PCT Article 25, the Office denies an
error or omission on the part of the receiving Office or the International
Bureau, an administrative appeal against this decision may be lodged with the
Appeal Commission for Intellectual Property within 30 days from the date of
receipt of the decision.

CH.14 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  48(2)  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.

CH.15

Continuation of the procedure may be requested where the applicant has failed
to comply with a time limit prescribed by law or fixed by the Office. The
request for continuation of the procedure must be presented within two months
from the time when the applicant became aware of the failure to meet the time
limit, but not later than six months from the expiration of the time limit
which has not been observed. Additionally, the omitted act must be completed
and the fee for continuation of the procedure must be paid within the same
time limit. Continuation of the procedure is excluded in some cases provided
for under PatG Section 46a and PatV Article 14, in particular for time limits
for payment of the transmittal fee, the search fee and the international fee
as well as for the time limit for election of States. Contrary to a request
for reinstatement (refer to paragraph CH.16), the applicant is not required to
prove that he was prevented, through no fault of his own, from complying with
the time limit.

CH.16

PatG Sec. 47,  PatV Art. 15  
Reinstatement may be requested where the applicant, through no fault of his
own, has failed to comply with a time limit during the international phase or
before the Office. Reinstatement is excluded, however, where the missed time
limit is the time limit for requesting reinstatement. The request for
reinstatement must be presented within two months after removal of the cause
of non-compliance with the time limit but not later than one year from the
expiration of the time limit which has not been observed. Within these two
months, the omitted act must be completed, the reinstatement fee (refer to
Annex CH.I) must be paid and a statement of the facts on which the request is
based must be furnished.

##  Annexes

Annex CH.I - Fees

Filing fee

200 CHF

Claims fee for each claim in excess of 10

50 CHF

Examination fee

500 CHF

Fee for accelerated examination procedure

200 CHF

Annual fees:

— for the 4th year

100 CHF

— for the 5th year

120 CHF

— for the 6th year

140 CHF

— for the 7th year

160 CHF

— for the 8th year

180 CHF

— for the 9th year

220 CHF

— for the 10th year

260 CHF

— for the 11th year

300 CHF

— for the 12th year

340 CHF

— for the 13th year

400 CHF

— for the 14th year

460 CHF

— for the 15th year

520 CHF

— for the 16th year

600 CHF

— for the 17th year

680 CHF

— for the 18th year

760 CHF

— for the 19th year

860 CHF

— for the 20th year

960 CHF

Supplement for late payment of an annual fee

50 CHF

Fee for continuation of the procedure

100 CHF

Reinstatement fee

500 CHF

Fee for restoration of the right of priority

500 CHF

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of fees must be effected in Swiss francs. All payments must
indicate the application number (national, if already known; international, if
the national application number is not yet known), the name of the applicant
and the category of fee being paid

According to the regulations on fees of the Swiss Federal Institute of
Intellectual Property, payment may be effected:

(a) by debiting a current account opened with the Institute

(b) by payment or transfer to the postal check account of the Institute (No.
30-4000-1, code SWIFT POFICHBE, IBAN CH6809000000300040001)

(c) by cash payment

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex CH.II - Declaration of
inventorship](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_ch.pdf)

[Annex CH.III - Power of
attorney](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_ch.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a Must be furnished within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22
or 39(1); however, continuation of the procedure may be requested in case of
failure to observe that time limit.  
2 ^ a This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  
3 ^ a If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.  

Change(s) as of 4 April 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental Organization

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

Payment by invoice or current account with the Office.

  

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

  

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

  

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

No

  

  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes, the Office permits reinstatement of rights under the "due care"
criterion.

Reinstatement fee

500 CHF

  

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

No

  

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

  

Close

Current version applicable from 4 Apr 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

