####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * ISA
  * IPEA
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
CL - Useful informationCL - International PhaseCL - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationCL - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeCL - Annex D - International Searching AuthorityCL - Annex E -
International Preliminary Examining AuthorityCL - Annex L - Deposits of
Microorganisms and Other Biological MaterialCL - National PhaseCL - Summary of
requirements for entry into the national phaseCL - The procedure in the
national PhaseCL - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide CL - Chile  
National Institute of Industrial Property (Chile)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **4 April 2024**

(published on 2 April 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
GENERAL INFO: Payment methods  
RO: Electronic filing, Incorporation by reference  
IPEA: IPEA Competency  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase: National phase,
Restoration of the right of priority, Reinstatement of rights  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 1 Jan 2024, 1 Mar 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for CL - National Institute of Industrial Property \(Chile\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: National Institute of Industrial Property (Chile)

PL: Industrial Property Law No. 19.039, as modified by Law No. 19.996, 2005,
Law No. 20.160, 2007, Law No. 20.569, 2012 and Law No. 21.355, 2021

PR: Regulations under Industrial Property Law No. 19.039

UTM: _Unidad Tributaria Mensual_

List of currencies used in this document:

CHF (Swiss franc), CLP (Chilean peso), EUR (Euro), USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=CL).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Article 64(5), Rule 20.8(a-_bis_), Rule 20.8(b-_bis_)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).  
PCT Rule 20.8(a-_bis_), The Offices (in their capacity as receiving Offices)
of the States listed in this table have notified the International Bureau (IB)
that new PCT Rules 20.5 _bis_(a)(ii) and 20.5 _bis_(d), are not compatible
and/or cannot be considered to be compatible with the national law applied by
the Office, or are deemed to have notified the IB of this incompatibility on
the basis of a notification made under PCT Rule 20.8(a) that remains in
effect.  
PCT Rule 20.8(b-_bis_), The Offices (in their capacity as designated Offices)
of the States listed in this table have notified the International Bureau (IB)
that PCT Rules 20.5 _bis_(a)(ii) and 20.5 _bis_(d), are not compatible and/or
cannot be considered to be compatible with the national law applied by the
Office, or are deemed to have notified the IB of this incompatibility on the
basis of a notification made under PCT Rule 20.8(b) that remains in effect.

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Chile

Two-letter code:

[CL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CL&doc-lang=EN)

Chile - National Institute of Industrial Property (Chile)

Name of Office:

National Institute of Industrial Property (Chile)

Location:

Av. Libertador Bernardo O´Higgins 194  
Piso 1  
Santiago  
Chile

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(56-2) 28 87 05 51

E-mail:

pct@inapi.cl

Website:

<http://www.inapi.cl>

Facsimile:

None

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

Yes

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

Yes, the Office is prepared to allow applicants to make international and
national applications available to the WIPO DAS

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[CL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CL&doc-lang=EN)

Chile - National Institute of Industrial Property (Chile)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[CL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CL&doc-lang=EN)

Chile - National Institute of Industrial Property (Chile)

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Patents

Utility models

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

The Office accepts the payment of fees by credit card and bank transfer using
the following link:  
<https://tramites.inapi.cl/Patent/PatentPaymentPCT>

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

An international application designating Chile benefits from provisional
protection as from the date on which the alleged infringer is notified,
provided that a patent is eventually granted.

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If the data concerning the inventor are missing at the
expiration of the time limit under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will
invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit fixed
in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Chile

Language in which international applications may be filed:

Depending on the applicant’s choice of competent International Searching
Authority, a translation into a corresponding language (refer to Annex D) may
have to be furnished by the applicant (PCT Rule 12.3)

Spanish

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Same as above

Language in which the request may be filed:

Spanish

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

3

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

For the relevant notifications by the Office, refer to Official Notices (PCT
Gazette) dated 4 December 2014, pages 190 et seq and 17 November 2022, page
303.

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes, but not for erroneously filed elements or parts

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

Yes

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies both the “unintentional” and the “due care” criteria
to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[BR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BR&doc-lang=EN)

Brazil - National Institute of Industrial Property (Brazil)

,

[CL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CL&doc-lang=EN)

Chile - National Institute of Industrial Property (Chile)

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[ES](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ES&doc-lang=EN)

Spain - Spanish Patent and Trademark Office

,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[BR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BR&doc-lang=EN)

Brazil - National Institute of Industrial Property (Brazil)

,

[CL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CL&doc-lang=EN)

Chile - National Institute of Industrial Property (Chile)

2,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

1,

[ES](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ES&doc-lang=EN)

Spain - Spanish Patent and Trademark Office

,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

2

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

When calculating the US dollar equivalent amount in CLP, applicants should use
the exchange rate fixed by the Central Bank of Chile on the day before the
date of payment

Transmittal fee:

Equivalent in CLP of 130 USD

International filing fee:

Equivalent in CLP of 1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

Equivalent in CLP of 18 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

Equivalent in CLP of 235 USD

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

Equivalent in CLP of 352 USD

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(CL)  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(ES)  
Annex D(KR)  
Annex D(US)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

The National Institute of Industrial Property (Chile) is a Participating
Office in the WIPO Digital Access Service (DAS) (refer to Annex B). No fee is
required by the Office where, as a depositing Office, it has made a certified
copy of the priority document available through DAS.

9,000 CLP

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

Equivalent in CLP of 400 USD

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Chile  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any natural or legal person resident in Chile

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Not applicable

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Not applicable

##  Annex D - International Searching Authority

International Searching Authority competent for the following Receiving
Offices:

[BR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BR&doc-lang=EN)

Brazil - National Institute of Industrial Property (Brazil)

,

[CL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CL&doc-lang=EN)

Chile - National Institute of Industrial Property (Chile)

,

[CO](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CO&doc-lang=EN)

Colombia - Superintendence of Industry and Commerce (Colombia)

,

[CR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CR&doc-lang=EN)

Costa Rica - Registry of Intellectual Property (Costa Rica)

,

[CU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CU&doc-lang=EN)

Cuba - Cuban Industrial Property Office

,

[DO](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=DO&doc-lang=EN)

Dominican Republic - National Office of Industrial Property (Dominican
Republic)

,

[EC](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EC&doc-lang=EN)

Ecuador - National Service of Intellectual Rights (SENADI) (Ecuador)

,

[MX](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MX&doc-lang=EN)

Mexico - Mexican Institute of Industrial Property

,

[PA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PA&doc-lang=EN)

Panama - Directorate General of the Industrial Property Registry (DIGERPI)
(Panama)

,

[PE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PE&doc-lang=EN)

Peru - National Institute for the Defense of Competition and Intellectual
Property Protection (Peru)

,

[SV](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SV&doc-lang=EN)

El Salvador - National Center of Registries (CNR) (El Salvador)

,

[TT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TT&doc-lang=EN)

Trinidad and Tobago - Intellectual Property Office, Office of the Attorney
General and Ministry of Legal Affairs (Trinidad and Tobago)

Search fee (PCT Rule 16):

1,703 CHF

1,899 EUR

2,000 USD

The following amounts are applicable in case of filing by a natural person or
a legal entity where the applicant is a national of and a resident in any of
the States which benefit, in accordance with the Schedule of Fees under the
PCT Regulations, from the 90% reduction of the international filing fee,
provided that, if there are several applicants, each must satisfy this
criterion. For details of applicants entitled to the 90% reduction in PCT
fees, refer to <http://www.wipo.int/pct/en/fees/>

341 CHF

380 EUR

400 USD

The following amounts are applicable in case of filing by a university where
the applicant is (a) a Chilean university, or (b) a foreign university
headquartered in any of the States which benefit, in accordance with the
Schedule of Fees under the PCT Regulations, from the 90% reduction of the
international filing fee, and authenticated by its legal representative, in a
simple declaration signed in the presence of a notary, as constituted as a
university in accordance with the law of that State, provided that, if there
are several applicants, each must satisfy the criterion set out in either sub-
item (a) or (b). For details of applicants entitled to the 90% reduction in
PCT fees, refer to <http://www.wipo.int/pct/en/fees/>

255 CHF

285 EUR

300 USD

This fee is payable to the receiving Office in the currency or one of the
currencies accepted by it.

Additional search fee (PCT Rule 40.2):

2,000 USD

The following amount is applicable in case of filing by a natural person or a
legal entity where the applicant is a national of and a resident in any of the
States which benefit, in accordance with the Schedule of Fees under the PCT
Regulations, from the 90% reduction of the international filing fee, provided
that, if there are several applicants, each must satisfy this criterion. For
details of applicants entitled to the 90% reduction in PCT fees, refer to
<http://www.wipo.int/pct/en/fees/>

400 USD

The following amount is applicable in case of filing by a university where the
applicant is (a) a Chilean university, or (b) a foreign university
headquartered in any of the States which benefit, in accordance with the
Schedule of Fees under the PCT Regulations, from the 90% reduction of the
international filing fee, and authenticated by its legal representative, in a
simple declaration signed in the presence of a notary, as constituted as a
university in accordance with the law of that State, provided that, if there
are several applicants, each must satisfy the criterion set out in either sub-
item (a) or (b). For details of applicants entitled to the 90% reduction in
PCT fees, refer to <http://www.wipo.int/pct/en/fees/>

300 USD

This fee is payable to the International Searching Authority and only in
particular circumstances.

Fee for copies of documents cited in the international search report (PCT Rule
44.3):

per document 10 USD

How to obtain copies:

The Authority provides applicants with a copy of cited documents in electronic
form, free of charge, when transmitting the international search report by
e-mail. No copies are provided when the international search report is sent by
mail

Copies are available, free of charge, for designated (elected) Offices, upon
request by e-mail at:  
pct@inapi.cl

Applicants will be charged the fee mentioned above

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.1 _ter_):

per document 10 USD

Protest fee (PCT Rule 40.2(e)):

350 USD

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rule 13 _ter_.1(c)):

None

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the search fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded

Where the international application is withdrawn or is considered withdrawn,
under PCT Article 14(1), (3) or (4), before the start of the international
search:  
refund of 100%

Where the Authority benefits from an earlier search carried out by the
Authority on an application whose priority is claimed:  
refund of 25%

Languages accepted for international search:

English,

Spanish

Does the Authority accept informal comments on earlier search results where an
international application claims priority from an earlier application already
searched by this Authority?

No

Types of physical media accepted for the furnishing of nucleotide and/or amino
acid sequence listings :

The entire printable copy of the sequence listing and identifying data should
be contained within one text file on a single CD or DVD.

Subject matter that will not be searched:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 39.1 with the
exception of any subject matter searched under the patent grant procedure in
accordance with the provisions of Chilean patent law

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Not applicable

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Not applicable

##  Annex E - International Preliminary Examining Authority

International Preliminary Examining Authority competent for the following
Receiving Offices: 3

The National Institute of Industrial Property (Chile) may act as International
Preliminary Examining Authority only if the international search is or has
been performed by that Office.

[BR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BR&doc-lang=EN)

Brazil - National Institute of Industrial Property (Brazil)

,

[CL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CL&doc-lang=EN)

Chile - National Institute of Industrial Property (Chile)

,

[CO](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CO&doc-lang=EN)

Colombia - Superintendence of Industry and Commerce (Colombia)

,

[CR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CR&doc-lang=EN)

Costa Rica - Registry of Intellectual Property (Costa Rica)

,

[CU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CU&doc-lang=EN)

Cuba - Cuban Industrial Property Office

,

[DO](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=DO&doc-lang=EN)

Dominican Republic - National Office of Industrial Property (Dominican
Republic)

,

[EC](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EC&doc-lang=EN)

Ecuador - National Service of Intellectual Rights (SENADI) (Ecuador)

,

[MX](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MX&doc-lang=EN)

Mexico - Mexican Institute of Industrial Property

,

[PA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PA&doc-lang=EN)

Panama - Directorate General of the Industrial Property Registry (DIGERPI)
(Panama)

,

[PE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PE&doc-lang=EN)

Peru - National Institute for the Defense of Competition and Intellectual
Property Protection (Peru)

,

[SV](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SV&doc-lang=EN)

El Salvador - National Center of Registries (CNR) (El Salvador)

,

[TT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TT&doc-lang=EN)

Trinidad and Tobago - Intellectual Property Office, Office of the Attorney
General and Ministry of Legal Affairs (Trinidad and Tobago)

Preliminary examination fee (PCT Rule 58):

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority

1,500 USD

The amount below is applicable in case of filing by a natural person or a
legal entity where the applicant is a national of and a resident in any of the
States which benefit, in accordance with the Schedule of Fees under the PCT
Regulations, from the 90% reduction of the international filing fee, provided
that, if there are several applicants, each must satisfy this criterion. For
details of applicants entitled to the 90% reduction in PCT fees, refer to
<http://www.wipo.int/pct/en/fees/>

400 USD

The amount below is applicable in case of filing by a university where the
applicant is (a) a Chilean university, or (b) a foreign university
headquartered in any of the States which benefit, in accordance with the
Schedule of Fees under the PCT Regulations, from the 90% reduction of the
international filing fee, and authenticated by its legal representative, in a
simple declaration signed in the presence of a notary, as constituted as a
university in accordance with the law of that State, provided that, if there
are several applicants, each must satisfy the criterion set out in either sub-
item (a) or (b). For details of applicants entitled to the 90% reduction in
PCT fees, refer to <http://www.wipo.int/pct/en/fees/>

300 USD

Additional preliminary examination fee (PCT Rule 68.3):

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority and
only in particular circumstances

1,500 USD

The amount below is applicable in case of filing by a natural person or a
legal entity where the applicant is a national of and a resident in any of the
States which benefit, in accordance with the Schedule of Fees under the PCT
Regulations, from the 90% reduction of the international filing fee, provided
that, if there are several applicants, each must satisfy this criterion. For
details of applicants entitled to the 90% reduction in PCT fees, refer to
<http://www.wipo.int/pct/en/fees/>

400 USD

The amount below is applicable in case of filing by a university where the
applicant is (a) a Chilean university, or (b) a foreign university
headquartered in any of the States which benefit, in accordance with the
Schedule of Fees under the PCT Regulations, from the 90% reduction of the
international filing fee, and authenticated by its legal representative, in a
simple declaration signed in the presence of a notary, as constituted as a
university in accordance with the law of that State, provided that, if there
are several applicants, each must satisfy the criterion set out in either sub-
item (a) or (b). For details of applicants entitled to the 90% reduction in
PCT fees, refer to <http://www.wipo.int/pct/en/fees/>

300 USD

Handling fee (PCT Rule 57.1):

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority. It
is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB))

235 USD

Fee for copies of documents cited in the international preliminary examination
report (PCT Rule 71.2):

per document 10 USD

How to obtain copies:

The Authority provides applicants with a copy of cited documents in electronic
form, free of charge, when transmitting the preliminary examination report by
e-mail. No copies are provided when the international preliminary examination
report is sent by mail

Copies are available, free of charge, for designated (elected) Offices, upon
request by e-mail at:  
pct@inapi.cl

Applicants will be charged the fee mentioned above

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.2):

per document 10 USD

Protest fee (PCT Rule 68.3(e)):

350 USD

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rule 13 _ter_.2):

None

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the preliminary examination fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded

In the cases provided for under PCT Rule 58.3:  
refund of 100%

If the international application or the demand is withdrawn before the start
of the international preliminary examination:  
refund of 100%

Does the Office accept the filing of demands (PCT Chapter II) in electronic
form?

Yes, The Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 4 December 2014, pages 190 _et seq._

Languages accepted for international preliminary examination:

English,

Spanish

Subject matter that will not be examined:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 67.1 with the
exception of any subject matter examined under the patent grant procedure in
accordance with the provisions of Chilean patent law

Are there any restrictions with regard to the competence of the Authority
acting as an International Preliminary Examining Authority?

The Office may act as International Preliminary Examining Authority only if
the international search is or has been performed by that Office.

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Not applicable

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Not applicable

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

At the time of filing, either in the description or separately

— any additional indications:

At the time of filing, either in the description or separately

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, relevant information on the
characteristics of the microorganism

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes, the Office permits reinstatement of rights under the "unintentional" and
the "due care" criteria.

Fee for reinstatement of rights

Equivalent in CLP of 500 USD

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or
39(1)

Spanish

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or
39(1)

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

Yes

National fees:

UTM means “ _Unidad Tributaria Mensual_ ”. The rate of exchange between the
CLP and the UTM is updated on a monthly basis and may be consulted at:
<http://www.sii.cl>

Patents

Filing fee

Equivalent in CLP of 1 UTM

Utility models

Filing fee

Equivalent in CLP of 1 UTM

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application 4 5

Document evidencing a change of name of the applicant if the change occurred
after the international filing date and has not been reflected in a
notification from the International Bureau (Form PCT/IB/306)

Statement justifying the applicant’s right to the invention 4 5

Statement justifying the applicant’s priority right 4 5

Translation of the international application to be furnished in two copies 5

Power of attorney if an agent is appointed

Who can act as agent?

Any natural or legal person resident in Chile

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies both the “unintentional” and “due care” criteria to
such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

CL.01 FORM FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

The Office has available a special form for entering the national phase (refer
to Annex CL.II). This form should preferably (but need not) be used.

CL.02 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as originally
filed (refer to National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

CL.03 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex CL.I.

CL.04 POWER OF ATTORNEY

An agent must be appointed by filing a power of attorney within 30 days from
the date of entry into the national phase if the applicant resides in Chile
and 60 days if the applicant is a non-resident. Any natural or legal person
resident in Chile may act as agent.

CL.05 MAINTENANCE FEES

PL Art. 18  
The maintenance fee covering the first decade is due upon acceptance of the
application. The maintenance fee covering the second decade is due before the
expiration of the first decade. It can still be paid within a grace period of
six months from the expiration of that time limit subject to the payment of a
surcharge. The surcharge is 20 percent per month or fraction of month starting
from the first month of the grace period. The maintenance fee covering the
second decade can also be paid in annuity payments. The amount of the
maintenance fees is indicated in Annex CL.I.

CL.06 REQUEST FOR EXAMINATION

PL Art. 6,  PL Art. 8  
Requests for examination must be made within 60 days from the expiration of
the time limit for opposition (PL. Art. 5). The request for examination is
only effective if the fee for examination has been paid. The amount of this
fee is indicated in Annex CL.I.

CL.07 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  PCT Rule 52,  PCT Rule 78,  PR Rule 49  
The applicant may amend the description, claims or drawings, at any time
during the national phase before the examination report has been established,
provided that the scope of the subject matter disclosed in the application is
not broadened thereby.

CL.08 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase.

CL.09 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 48,  PCT Rule 82 _bis_  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase. If the
applicant fails to comply with the applicable requirements prescribed by the
national law upon entry into national phase, the Office will invite the
applicant to comply within a period of two months following the date of
notification.

CL.10 REINSTATEMENT OF RIGHTS

PCT Rule 49.6  
Reinstatement of rights may be requested where the applicant failed to observe
a time limit set by the Office either unintentionally or in spite of due care,
which is prejudicial to his rights. A request for reinstatement must be
presented in writing within two months from the removal of the cause of the
failure to observe the time limit or twelve months from the date of expiration
of the applicable time limit, whichever time limit expires earlier. The
omitted action must be completed within the applicable time limit, and the fee
for reinstatement of rights (refer to Annex CL.I) must be paid.

CL.11 UTILITY MODEL

PCT Art. 43,  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1(a)  
Subject to paragraph CL.12, if the applicant wishes to obtain a utility model
instead of a patent in Chile, on the basis of an international application,
the applicant, when performing the acts referred to in Article 22 or 39, shall
so indicate to the Office.

CL.12 CONVERSION

PCT Rule 49 _bis_.2(b),  PCT Art. 35  
The applicant may convert an application for a patent into an application for
a utility model by filing a request to that effect. The converted application
shall have the filing date of the initial application.

##  Annexes

Annex CL.I - Fees

UTM means “ _Unidad Tributaria Mensual_ ”. The rate of exchange between the
CLP and the UTM is updated on a monthly basis and may be consulted at:
<http://www.sii.cl>

Patents

Filing fee for the first 80 sheets

Equivalent in CLP of 1 UTM

Supplemental fee for each additional 20 sheets that exceeds the first 80
sheets

Equivalent in CLP of 1 UTM

Publication fee (estimated cost)

This amount depends on the contents of the publication and is fixed by the “
_Diario Oficial_ ”

12,000 CLP

Examination fee

663,000 CLP

Examination fee – INAPI was the ISA or IPEA and all claims satisfy Article 118
3rd paragraph

331,500 CLP

Maintenance fees:

— for the 1st to the 10th years

Equivalent in CLP of 3 UTM

— for the 11th to the 20th years

Equivalent in CLP of 4 UTM

— or Annuity payment

Equivalent in CLP of 0.4 UTM

Fee for reinstatement of rights

Equivalent in CLP of 500 USD

Utility models

Filing fee for the first 80 sheets

Equivalent in CLP of 1 UTM

Supplemental fee for each additional 20 sheets that exceeds the first 80
sheets

Equivalent in CLP of 1 UTM

Publication fee (estimated cost)

This amount depends on the contents of the publication and is fixed by the “
_Diario Oficial_ ”

12,000 CLP

Examination fee

506,000 CLP

Examination fee – INAPI was the ISA or IPEA and all claims satisfy Article 118
3rd paragraph

253,000 CLP

Maintenance fees

— for the 1st to the 5th years

Equivalent in CLP of 1 UTM

— for the 6th to the 10th years

Equivalent in CLP of 2 UTM

— or Annuity payment

Equivalent in CLP of 0.4 UTM

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of the fees has to be effected in Chilean pesos. All payments must
indicate the application number (national, if already known; international, if
the national application number is not yet known), the name of the applicant
and the category of fee being paid

Filing and maintenance fees should be paid by cheque or cash using Form 10 “
_Ingresos Fiscales Pagos Directos_ ”, which is available at
<http://www.inapi.cl>

The publication fee should be paid by cheque or cash to the “ _Diario Oficial_
”, at:  
Diario Oficial  
Dr. Torres Boonen 511  
Providencia  
Santiago  
Chile

The publication fee can also be paid online through the website of the _Diario
Oficial_ <http://www.diariooficial.interior.gob.cl>

The examination fee should be paid to “ _Instituto Nacional de Propiedad
Industrial – Peritos_ ”

bank account No.  
000-0-0900122-1

BancoEstado  
Alameda No. 1111  
Santiago  
Chile

The filing and examination fees can also be paid electronically on the website
of INAPI  
http://www. inapi.cl

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex CL.II - Form for entry into the national
phase](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_cl.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office or by the Spanish Patent and Trademark Office.  
2 ^ a b The Office is competent only if the international search is or has
been carried out by that Office.  
3 ^ a The National Institute of Industrial Property (Chile) may act as
International Preliminary Examining Authority only if the international search
is or has been performed by that Office.  
4 ^ a b c This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration
has been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  
5 ^ a b c d If not already complied with within the time limit applicable
under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply
with the requirement within a time limit of two months from the date of
receipt of the invitation.  

Change(s) as of 4 April 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental Organization

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

The Office accepts the payment of fees by credit card and bank transfer using
the following link:  
<https://tramites.inapi.cl/Patent/PatentPaymentPCT>

  

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

  

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes, but not for erroneously filed elements or parts

  

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

Yes

  

  
Annex E - International Preliminary Examining Authority

Are there any restrictions with regard to the competence of the Authority
acting as an International Preliminary Examining Authority?

The Office may act as International Preliminary Examining Authority only if
the international search is or has been performed by that Office.

  

  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes, the Office permits reinstatement of rights under the "unintentional" and
the "due care" criteria.

Fee for reinstatement of rights

Equivalent in CLP of 500 USD

  

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

Yes

  

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

  

Close

Current version applicable from 4 Apr 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

