####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
CR - Useful informationCR - International PhaseCR - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationCR - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeCR - National PhaseCR - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseCR - The procedure in the national PhaseCR - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide CR - Costa Rica  
Registry of Intellectual Property (Costa Rica)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **1 March 2024**

(published on 1 February 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
RO: RO fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 1 Jan 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for CR - Registry of Intellectual Property \(Costa Rica\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Registry of Intellectual Property (Costa Rica)

PL: Law No. 6867 of 25 April 1983, on Patents, Industrial Designs and Utility
Models (as amended up to Law No. 8686 of 21 November 2008)

PR: Executive Decree No. 38308-JP of 12 February 2014, on Amendments to Decree
No. 15222-MIEM-J of 12 December 1983, approving Regulation of Law No. 6867 of
25 April 1983, on Patents, Industrial Designs and Utility Models

List of currencies used in this document:

USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=CR).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Costa Rica

Two-letter code:

[CR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CR&doc-lang=EN)

Costa Rica - Registry of Intellectual Property (Costa Rica)

Name of Office:

Registry of Intellectual Property (Costa Rica)

Location:

Apartado Postal 523-2010 Zapote  
San José  
Costa Rica

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(506) 22 341 537  
(506) 22 020 885

E-mail:

vcohen@rnp.go.cr

jlizano@rnp.go.cr

hmarin@rnp.go.cr

Website:

<http://www.rnpdigital.com/propiedad_industrial/index.htm>

Facsimile:

(506) 2234 1537

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[CR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CR&doc-lang=EN)

Costa Rica - Registry of Intellectual Property (Costa Rica)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[CR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CR&doc-lang=EN)

Costa Rica - Registry of Intellectual Property (Costa Rica)

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Patents

Utility models

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

After a patent has been granted, the applicant is entitled to damages for the
period following the international publication of the international
application. For that purpose, and if the international publication has not
been effected in Spanish, the applicant must submit to the Office a
translation of the international application into Spanish. The provisional
protection applies as from the date of publication in Spanish of the
international application. Refer to Article 11 of the Law No. 6867 of 13 June
1983 on Patents, Industrial Designs and Utility Models.

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If not already complied with within the time limit
applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)(a), the Office will invite the
applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit of two months
from the date of the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

No

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Costa Rica

Language in which international applications may be filed:

Spanish

Depending on the applicant’s choice of competent International Searching
Authority, a translation into a corresponding language (refer Annex D) may
have to be furnished by the applicant (PCT Rule 12.3)

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Same as above

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

3

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C
of the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
If the receiving Office does not accept international applications in
electronic form in such format, the international application will be
transmitted to the International Bureau as receiving Office (PCT Rule
19.4(a)(ii-_bis_)).

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 29 November 2018, pages 347 _et seq._

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[CL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CL&doc-lang=EN)

Chile - National Institute of Industrial Property (Chile)

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[ES](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ES&doc-lang=EN)

Spain - Spanish Patent and Trademark Office

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[CL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CL&doc-lang=EN)

Chile - National Institute of Industrial Property (Chile)

1,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

2,

[ES](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ES&doc-lang=EN)

Spain - Spanish Patent and Trademark Office

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

online 237 USD

on paper 289 USD

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

235 USD

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

352 USD

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(CL)  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D (ES)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

32 USD

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

144 USD

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Costa Rica  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any attorney registered in Costa Rica

Refer to Law No. 6867 on Patents, Industrial Designs and Utility Models,
Article 34

Waiver of power of attorney:

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Refer to the Office

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Refer to the Office

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(3): 31 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Spanish

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, as amended only,
together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any text matter of
drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, only as amended by the
annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

The applicant should only send a copy of the international application if
he/she has not received Form PCT/IB/308 and the Office has not received a copy
of the international application from the International Bureau under PCT
Article 20. This may be the case where the applicant expressly requests an
earlier start of the national phase under PCT Article 23(2)

National fees:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Refer to Law No. 6867 on Patents, Industrial Designs and Utility Models,
Article 33(a) and Regulations to the Law on Patents, Industrial Designs and
Utility Models, Article 47

Patents

Filing fee 3

500 USD

Utility models

Filing fee

75 USD

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

Refunds of up to 50% may be possible 4

It is possible to reuse the fee already paid for an application that was
subsequently abandoned for the payment of the national fee in respect of a new
application with the same subject matter

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the applicant must comply with the requirement within 90
days after entry into the national phase. The Office will not issue an
invitation to this effect

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application 5

Instrument of assignment or transfer of the right to the application 5

Evidence of entitlement to claim priority where the applicant is not the
applicant who filed the earlier application 5

Evidence concerning non-prejudicial disclosures or exceptions to lack of
novelty, such as disclosures resulting from abuse, disclosures at certain
exhibitions and disclosures by the applicant during a certain period of time 5

Appointment of an agent or address for notification in Costa Rica

Translation of the international application or any document relating to it to
be furnished in two copies (one paper copy and an additional copy in
electronic format (CD-ROM))

Verified translation of the international application, where deemed necessary

Verified translation of the priority document 6

Who can act as agent?

Refer to Law No. 6867 on Patents, Industrial Designs and Utility Models,
Article 34

Any attorney registered in Costa Rica

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

CR.01 LANGUAGE OF PROCEEDINGS

PR Art. 9  
The language of proceedings is Spanish. Where the international application
was not filed in Spanish, the applicant shall furnish a verified translation
into Spanish.

CR.02 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

PCT Rule 51 _bis_ 1(e)  
Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as originally
filed (refer to National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

CR.03 DIVISIONAL APPLICATIONS

PL Art. 8.1  
An applicant may divide an application into two or more parts, but none of
them may entail a broadening of the invention or of the disclosure contained
in the initial application. Each divisional application will benefit from the
same filing date as the international application which entered the national
phase. The amount of the fee for a divisional application is indicated in
Annex CR.I.

CR.04 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex CR.I.

CR.05 ANNUAL FEES

PL Art. 33 _bis_ ,  PR Art. 46.2  
The annual fees to maintain the validity of the patent may be paid in advance
for two or more annual periods. The fee payable for registration and issue of
the certificate shall waive payment of the first annual fee. The second and
subsequent annuities due from the filing date of the application until the
date of grant of the patent shall be paid within a maximum period of two
months from the date of grant. The due date of each annuity shall be the last
day of the month of the anniversary of the filing date of the application. If
payment is not made within the prescribed time limits, a period of grace of
six months shall be granted for the payment of the annual fee, which shall be
made simultaneously with the payment of the surcharge for payment within the
grace period. The amounts of the annual fees are indicated in Annex CR.I.

CR.06 REPRESENTATION

PL Art. 34  
If the applicant has neither a residence nor a principal place of business in
Costa Rica, he shall be represented by a lawyer domiciled in Costa Rica.

CR.07 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION

PL Art. 8.1  
The applicant has the right, on his own initiative, to make amendments to the
application provided that the scope of the application as filed is not
broadened.

CR.08 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2),  PCT Rule 82 _bis_  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.

CR.09 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase.a

##  Annexes

Annex CR.I - Fees

Patents

Filing fee including formal examination 3

500 USD

Fee for divisional application 3

500 USD

Examination fee

525 USD

Registration fee 3

500 USD

Opposition fee

25 USD

Annual fees, from the 2nd to the 20th year 3

500 USD

Surcharge for payment within the grace period

30% of the annual fee

Fee for requesting extension of the patent term 3

150 USD

Fee for reinstatement of rights

144 USD

Fee for restoration of the right of priority

144 USD

Utility Models

Filing fee 3

75 USD

Fee for divisional application 3

75 USD

Examination fee

525 USD

Opposition fee

30 USD

How can payment of fees be effected?

All fees must be paid to the Bank of Costa Rica, Banco de Costa Rica,
presenting evidence of the payment to the Registry together with the
application

Forms

Please refer to the Office

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office.  
2 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office or by the Spanish Patent and Trademark Office.  
3 ^ a b c d e f g h This fee is reduced by 70% where the international
application has been filed by natural persons, micro or small enterprises, as
defined in Law No. 8262 of Costa Rica, public institutions of higher education
or public institutes for scientific or technology research. Together with the
request for reduction of the fee, the applicant must provide, in addition to
the proof of payment, the following documents: a sworn statement in which the
applicant declares that he is entitled to the reduction, a copy of the
identification card (“cédula de identidad”) in the case of a natural person or
a copy of the corporation card (“cédula jurídica”) in the case of a legal
person. To proceed with the registration of the transfer of rights to a third
party which is not entitled to the reduction, the latter has to pay the
remaining 70% of the fee that was not initially paid by the assignor. In
addition, as from the date of transfer to a third party, the assignee has to
pay the total amount of the annual fees due to maintain the validity of the
patent.  
4 ^ a Refer to Regulations to the Law No. 6867 on Patents, Industrial Designs
and Utility Models, Article 14.  
5 ^ a b c d This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration
has been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  
6 ^ a Only if the validity of the priority claim is relevant to the
determination of whether the invention concerned is patentable.  

Change(s) as of 1 March 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

235 USD

  

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

352 USD

  

Close

Current version applicable from 1 Mar 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

