####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
CU - Useful informationCU - International PhaseCU - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationCU - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeCU - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialCU - National PhaseCU - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseCU - The procedure in the national PhaseCU - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide CU - Cuba  
Cuban Industrial Property Office

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **16 April 2024**

(published on 16 April 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase: Translation,
Translation for national phase entry, Special requirements  
Annexes: Divers  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Jan 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for CU - Cuban Industrial Property Office)).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Cuban Industrial Property Office

DL290/2011: Decree-Law No. 290, on Inventions and Industrial Designs and
Models (of 20 November 2011)

List of currencies used in this document:

CHF (Swiss franc), CUP (Cuban Peso)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=CU).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Article 64(5), Rule 20.8(a), Rule 20.8(a-_bis_), Rule 20.8(b) , Rule
20.8(b-_bis_), Rule 26 _bis_.3(j), Rule 49 _ter_.1(g), Rule 49 _ter_.2(h)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).  
PCT Rule 20.8(a-_bis_), The Offices (in their capacity as receiving Offices)
of the States listed in this table have notified the International Bureau (IB)
that new PCT Rules 20.5 _bis_(a)(ii) and 20.5 _bis_(d), are not compatible
and/or cannot be considered to be compatible with the national law applied by
the Office, or are deemed to have notified the IB of this incompatibility on
the basis of a notification made under PCT Rule 20.8(a) that remains in
effect.  
PCT Rule 20.8(b-_bis_), The Offices (in their capacity as designated Offices)
of the States listed in this table have notified the International Bureau (IB)
that PCT Rules 20.5 _bis_(a)(ii) and 20.5 _bis_(d), are not compatible and/or
cannot be considered to be compatible with the national law applied by the
Office, or are deemed to have notified the IB of this incompatibility on the
basis of a notification made under PCT Rule 20.8(b) that remains in effect.

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Cuba

Two-letter code:

[CU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CU&doc-lang=EN)

Cuba - Cuban Industrial Property Office

Name of Office:

Cuban Industrial Property Office

Location:

Calle Picota No. 15 entre Luz y Acosta  
La Habana Vieja  
La Habana 10100  
Cuba

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(537) 862 43 79  
(537) 862 43 95  
(537) 866 05 57  
(537) 866 05 59

E-mail:

ocpi@ocpi.cu

Website:

<http://www.ocpi.cu>

Facsimile:

(537) 866 56 10

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

For applications filed with the Office on or after 1 January 2024.

Yes, the Office is prepared to allow applicants to make international and
national applications available to the WIPO DAS

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[CU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CU&doc-lang=EN)

Cuba - Cuban Industrial Property Office

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[CU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CU&doc-lang=EN)

Cuba - Cuban Industrial Property Office

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Patents

Utility models

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If not already complied with within the time limit
applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant
to comply with the requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Cuba

Language in which international applications may be filed:

Spanish

Depending on the applicant’s choice of competent International Searching
Authority, a translation into a corresponding language (refer to Annex D) may
have to be furnished by the applicant (PCT Rule 12.3)

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Same as above

Language in which the request may be filed:

Spanish

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C
of the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

For the relevant notifications by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 28 January 2016, pages 28 _et seq._ and 1 September 2022,
pages 239 _et seq._

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

No

Competent International Searching Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[BR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BR&doc-lang=EN)

Brazil - National Institute of Industrial Property (Brazil)

,

[CL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CL&doc-lang=EN)

Chile - National Institute of Industrial Property (Chile)

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[ES](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ES&doc-lang=EN)

Spain - Spanish Patent and Trademark Office

,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[BR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BR&doc-lang=EN)

Brazil - National Institute of Industrial Property (Brazil)

,

[CL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CL&doc-lang=EN)

Chile - National Institute of Industrial Property (Chile)

1,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

2,

[ES](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ES&doc-lang=EN)

Spain - Spanish Patent and Trademark Office

,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

2,400 CUP

International filing fee:

Equivalent in CUP of 1,330 CHF

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

Equivalent in CUP of 15 CHF

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

Equivalent in CUP of 200 CHF

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

Equivalent in CUP of 300 CHF

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(AT)  
Annex D(BR)  
Annex D(CL)  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(ES)  
Annex D(RU)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

2,400 CUP

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Cuba  
Yes, if the applicant does not have a domicile or a real and effective
industrial or commercial establishment in Cuba

Who can act as agent?

Any person authorized to practice before the Office. The names and
professional addresses of the persons who can act as agents are published in
the Official Gazette [_Boletín Oficial de la Oficina_]

Waiver of power of attorney:

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Refer to the Office

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Refer to the Office

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

The name of the depositary institution, the date of the deposit and the
accession number at the time of filing (as part of the application)

— any additional indications:

At the time of filing (as part of the application)

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, relevant information on the
characteristics of the biological material

Additional information

The certificate of deposit must be submitted within 16 months from the date of
filing of the application or, if applicable, the date of the priority claim.

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

If not already furnished within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22
or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement
within a time limit of 60 days. If the translation of the amended application
is not furnished, the Office will proceed on the basis of the translation of
the application as originally filed. If the translation of the application as
originally filed is not furnished, the application will be considered
abandoned.

Spanish

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

If not already furnished within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22
or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement
within a time limit of 60 days. If the translation of the amended application
is not furnished, the Office will proceed on the basis of the translation of
the application as originally filed. If the translation of the application as
originally filed is not furnished, the application will be considered
abandoned.

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

The Office may also require payment of the third annual fee at the time of
filing, depending on the date of entry into the national phase

Patents

Filing fee (including publication fee and the annual fee for the 1st and the
2nd years)

11,040 CUP

Utility models

Filing fee (including publication fee and the annual fee for the 1st and the
2nd years)

8,400 CUP

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

Fees are reduced by 1,200 CUP where applications are filed both on paper and
in electronic form

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit of 60 days subject to the payment of the
applicable fee. Before the expiration of that period, the applicant may
request another extension of 30 days subject to the payment of the applicable
fee.

Instrument of assignment or transfer where the applicant is not the inventor 3

Instrument of assignment of the priority right where the applicants are not
identical 3

Appointment of an agent if the applicant does not have a domicile or a real or
effective industrial or commercial establishment in Cuba

Evidence concerning non-prejudicial disclosures or exceptions to lack of
novelty, such as disclosures resulting from abuse and disclosures by the
applicant in official or officially recognized exhibitions 4

Verification and translation of the international application to be furnished
in two copies

Furnishing, where applicable, of a nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence
listing in electronic form and paper and a declaration that the sequences are
identical in both formats 5

Who can act as agent?

Any person authorized to practice before the Office. The names and
professional addresses of the persons who can act as agents are published in
the Official Gazette [_Boletín Oficial de la Oficina_]

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

No

##  The procedure in the national Phase

CU.01 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

CU.02 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex CU.I.

CU.03 POWER OF ATTORNEY

DL290/2011 15  
An agent authorized to practice before the Office must be appointed by filing
a power of attorney if the applicant does not have a domicile or a real and
effective industrial and commercial establishment in Cuba. A model is given in
Annex CU.II.

CU.04 ASSIGNMENT DEED

DL290/2011 8  
For details, refer to the model in Annex CU.III. If the applicant has obtained
the right to file the international application through one or more other
persons and not directly from the inventor, an assignment deed linking the
inventor and the applicant must be presented. This requirement may be
satisfied if the corresponding declaration has been made in accordance with
PCT Rule 4.17.

CU.05

Where the priority of an earlier application is claimed and the applicant is
not the same as the applicant of the original application, a copy of the
instrument granting the right to claim the priority of the earlier application
to the current applicant must be submitted. This requirement may be satisfied
if the corresponding declaration has been made in accordance with PCT Rule
4.17.

CU.06 DIVISIONAL APPLICATIONS

DL290/2011 20.2  
Where an application is divided, either at the request of the applicant or at
the request of the Office, it will benefit from the same filing date and any
applicable priority date as the international application which entered the
national phase.

DL290/2011 32  
The division of an application at the request of the applicant must be
submitted within six months from the date of entry into the national phase in
Cuba. The division of an application at the request of the Office must be
submitted within 60 days from the date of the notification of the requirement
by the Office. The amount of the fee for a divisional application is indicated
in Annex CU.I.

CU.07 ANNUAL FEES

DL290/2011 42,  DL290/2011 43  
Annual fees are payable from the international filing date and must be paid
within 30 months from the priority date, regardless of whether or not
preliminary examination has been carried out. Annual fees must be paid before
the beginning of the year of validity. A period of grace of six months will be
allowed for the payment of an expired annual fee, but the prescribed amount
thereof will then be doubled. For the amount of these fees, refer to Annex
CU.I.

CU.08 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

DL290/2011 131,  DL290/2011 132,  DL290/2011 133,  DL290/2011 134  
The applicant may, before grant, request rectification of errors of form. A
request for rectification of errors of substance can only be made by the
applicant before publication, provided that such rectification does not go
beyond the content of the application as originally filed. Any holder of a
patent or utility model may request the inclusion of any amendment to his
title of protection provided the documents that legally justify it are
furnished. The amount of the fee payable for such amendment is indicated in
Annex CU.I.

CU.09 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETINGS TIME LIMITS

DL290/2011 32,  DL290/2011 36  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase. Where an
official notice is not complied with within 60 days the application will be
considered abandoned unless the applicant requests in writing an extension of
30 days and pays the corresponding fee. The amount of the extension fee is
indicated in Annex CU.I.

CU.10 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase.

CU.11 APPEALS

DL290/2011 39,  DL290/2011 40,  DL290/2011 41  
After substantive examination, a decision is issued by the Chief of the
Technical Department, granting, granting in part or denying the application.
In case of non-conformity, applicants may file an appeal with the Director of
the Office, within 30 days from the date of the notification of said decision,
upon payment of the corresponding fee. The amount of the appeal fee is
indicated in Annex CU.I.

DL290/2011 119  
Applicants may file an appeal before the Provincial Tribunal of the City of
Havana against the decision of the Director of the Office within 30 days from
the date of the notification of said decision.

CU.12 UTILITY MODEL

Subject to paragraph CU.14, if the applicant wishes to obtain a utility model
instead of a patent in Cuba, on the basis of an international application, the
applicant, when performing the acts referred to in Article 22 or 39, shall so
indicate to the Office. The fees relating to utility models are indicated in
Annex CU.I.

CU.13 REINSTATEMENT OF RIGHTS

DL290/2011 123,  DL290/2011 124,  PCT Rule 49.6  
Reinstatement of rights may be requested where the applicant failed to perform
the acts referred to in Article 22 to enter the national phase within the
applicable time limit if the failure to meet that time limit occurred in spite
of due care required by the circumstances. Reinstatement of rights may also be
requested where the applicant failed to observe a time limit set by the Office
in spite of due care, which is prejudicial to his rights. A request for
reinstatement must be presented in writing within 60 days from the removal of
the cause of the failure to observe the time limit or 12 months from the date
of expiration of the applicable time limit. The omitted action must be
completed within the applicable time limit, the request must state the facts
which justify the reinstatement and set out the facts on which it relies, and
the fee for reinstatement of rights (refer to Annex CU.I) must be paid.

D342/2018 78  
Reinstatement of rights is excluded where the applicant failed to observe the
following time limits:

a) to request reinstatement;

b) the priority period;

c) to provide documents relating to non-prejudicial disclosures at official or
officially-recognized international exhibitions and

d) to file oppositions.

CU.14 CONVERSION

DL290/2011 83  
During the processing of the international application, the applicant has the
right to convert his application for a patent into an application for a
utility model or _vice versa_ within 12 months after entering the national
phase, upon payment of the prescribed fee. The amount of the fee for
conversion is indicated in Annex CU.I.

D342/2018 31.3  
The conversion of the form of protection as requested by the Office must be
submitted within 60 days from the date of the notification of the requirement
by the Office.

##  Annexes

Annex CU.I - Fees

Patents

Filing fee (including publication fee and the annual fee for the 1st and the
2nd years)

The Office may also require payment of the third annual fee at the time of
filing, depending on the date of entry into the national phase.

11,040 CUP

— where the application is filed both on paper and in electronic form

reduced by 1,200 CUP

Claim fee:

— for each independent claim in excess of one

1,920 CUP

— for each multiple dependent claim

2,400 CUP

— for each group up to ten dependent claims

1,920 CUP

Fee for each page in excess of 30

120 CUP

Fee for amendment or modification

2,400 CUP

Fee for grant

4,800 CUP

Fee for claiming priority, per priority

1,200 CUP

Fee to respond to an invitation from the Office

2,040 CUP

Fee for extension of time to respond to an invitation from the Office

1,680 CUP

Fee for conversion

3,600 CUP

Fee for appeal

4,800 CUP

Fee for reinstatement

7,200 CUP

Fee for submission of divisional application

8,400 CUP

Annual fees:

— for the 3rd year

4,800 CUP

— for the 4th year

6,000 CUP

— for the 5th year

7,200 CUP

— for the 6th year

8,400 CUP

— for the 7th year

9,600 CUP

— for the 8th year

10,800 CUP

— for the 9th year

12,000 CUP

— for the 10th year

13,200 CUP

— for the 11th year

14,400 CUP

— for the 12th year

15,600 CUP

— for the 13th year

16,800 CUP

— for the 14th year

18,000 CUP

— for the 15th year

19,200 CUP

— for the 16th year

21,600 CUP

— for the 17th year

24,000 CUP

— for the 18th year

26,400 CUP

— for the 19th year

28,800 CUP

— for the 20th year

31,200 CUP

— late payment fee in period of grace of six months

double of the corresponding fee

Utility models

Filing fee (including publication fee and the annual fee for the 1st and the
2nd years)

The Office may also require payment of the third annual fee at the time of
filing, depending on the date of entry into the national phase.

8,400 CUP

— where the application is filed both on paper and in electronic form

reduced by 1,200 CUP

Fee for grant

3,600 CUP

Fee for submission of divisional application

The first and second annuities are not included.

5,760 CUP

— for each group of up to five claims

1,920 CUP

Fee for each page in excess of 30

120 CUP

Annual fees:

— for the 3rd year

3,600 CUP

— for the 4th year

4,800 CUP

— for the 5th year

6,000 CUP

— for the 6th year

7,200 CUP

— for the 7th year

8,400 CUP

— for the 8th year

9,600 CUP

— for the 9th year

10,800 CUP

— for the 10th year

12,000 CUP

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of fees must be effected in Cuban pesos. All payments must
indicate the application number  
(national, if already known; international, if the national application number
is not yet known), the name of the applicant and the category of fee being
paid. All fees must be paid to the Office, either by check or in cash.

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex CU.II - Power of
attorney](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_cu.pdf)

[Annex CU.III - Deed of
assignment](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_cu.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office.  
2 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office, by the Austrian Patent Office or by the Spanish
Patent and Trademark Office.  
3 ^ a b This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  
4 ^ a Documents relative to official or officially recognized exhibitions must
be submitted to the Office within a non-extendable period of three months from
the date of entry into the national phase.  
5 ^ a The documents must be submitted to the Office within 16 months from the
date of filing of the application or, if applicable, from the date of the
priority claim.  

Change(s) as of 16 April 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

If not already furnished within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22
or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement
within a time limit of 60 days. If the translation of the amended application
is not furnished, the Office will proceed on the basis of the translation of
the application as originally filed. If the translation of the application as
originally filed is not furnished, the application will be considered
abandoned.

Spanish

  

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

If not already furnished within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22
or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement
within a time limit of 60 days. If the translation of the amended application
is not furnished, the Office will proceed on the basis of the translation of
the application as originally filed. If the translation of the application as
originally filed is not furnished, the application will be considered
abandoned.

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

  

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit of 60 days subject to the payment of the
applicable fee. Before the expiration of that period, the applicant may
request another extension of 30 days subject to the payment of the applicable
fee.

Instrument of assignment or transfer where the applicant is not the inventor

Instrument of assignment of the priority right where the applicants are not
identical

Appointment of an agent if the applicant does not have a domicile or a real or
effective industrial or commercial establishment in Cuba

Evidence concerning non-prejudicial disclosures or exceptions to lack of
novelty, such as disclosures resulting from abuse and disclosures by the
applicant in official or officially recognized exhibitions

Verification and translation of the international application to be furnished
in two copies

Furnishing, where applicable, of a nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence
listing in electronic form and paper and a declaration that the sequences are
identical in both formats

  

  
Annexes

Filing fee (including publication fee and the annual fee for the 1st and the
2nd years)

The Office may also require payment of the third annual fee at the time of
filing, depending on the date of entry into the national phase.

11,040 CUP

  

— where the application is filed both on paper and in electronic form

reduced by 1,200 CUP

  

Filing fee (including publication fee and the annual fee for the 1st and the
2nd years)

The Office may also require payment of the third annual fee at the time of
filing, depending on the date of entry into the national phase.

8,400 CUP

  

— where the application is filed both on paper and in electronic form

reduced by 1,200 CUP

  

Fee for submission of divisional application

The first and second annuities are not included.

5,760 CUP

  

Close

Current version applicable from 16 Apr 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

