####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
DE - Useful informationDE - International PhaseDE - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationDE - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeDE - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialDE - National PhaseDE - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseDE - The procedure in the national PhaseDE - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide DE - Germany  
German Patent and Trade Mark Office

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **4 April 2024**

(published on 5 April 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
GENERAL INFO: Payment methods  
RO: Electronic filing, Incorporation by reference  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase: National phase,
Restoration of the right of priority, Reinstatement of rights  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 28 Sep 2023, 1 Jan 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for DE - German Patent and Trade Mark Office)).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: German Patent and Trade Mark Office

PatG: Patent Act [_Patentgesetz_]

GebrMG: Utility Model Act [_Gebrauchsmustergesetz_]

IntPatÜbkG: Act on International Patent Conventions [_Gesetz über
internationale Patentübereinkommen_]

PatKostG: Patent Costs Act [_Patentkostengesetz_]

PatKostZV: Ordinance on Payment of Patent Costs of the German Patent and Trade
Mark Office and the Federal Patent Court [_Patentkostenzahlungsverordnung_]

DPMAV: Ordinance concerning the German Patent and Trade Mark Office
[_Verordnung über das Deutsche Patent- und Markenamt_]

List of currencies used in this document:

EUR (Euro)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=DE).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Rule 20.8(a), Rule 20.8(a-_bis_), Rule 20.8(b), Rule 20.8(b-_bis_), Rule 23
_bis_.2(b), Rule 26 _bis_.3(j), Rule 4.9(b), Rule 49.6(f), Rule 49 _ter_.1(g),
Rule 49 _ter_.2(h)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).  
PCT Rule 20.8(a-_bis_), The Offices (in their capacity as receiving Offices)
of the States listed in this table have notified the International Bureau (IB)
that new PCT Rules 20.5 _bis_(a)(ii) and 20.5 _bis_(d), are not compatible
and/or cannot be considered to be compatible with the national law applied by
the Office, or are deemed to have notified the IB of this incompatibility on
the basis of a notification made under PCT Rule 20.8(a) that remains in
effect.  
PCT Rule 20.8(b-_bis_), The Offices (in their capacity as designated Offices)
of the States listed in this table have notified the International Bureau (IB)
that PCT Rules 20.5 _bis_(a)(ii) and 20.5 _bis_(d), are not compatible and/or
cannot be considered to be compatible with the national law applied by the
Office, or are deemed to have notified the IB of this incompatibility on the
basis of a notification made under PCT Rule 20.8(b) that remains in effect.

Office Closed dates

Munich Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday  
Jena Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday  
Berlin Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Germany

Two-letter code:

[DE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=DE&doc-lang=EN)

Germany - German Patent and Trade Mark Office

Name of Office:

German Patent and Trade Mark Office

Location:

Zweibrückenstrasse 12  
80331 München  
Germany

Mailing address:

80297 München  
Germany

Telephone:

(49-89) 2195-0  
Customer Care and Services  
(49-89) 2195-1000

E-mail:

info@dpma.de

Website:

<http://www.dpma.de>

Facsimile:

(49-89) 2195-2221

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes, within 14 days from the date of the transmission, if the transmitted
document is the international application or a replacement sheet containing
corrections or amendments of the international application

No, only upon invitation in the case of other documents

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[DE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=DE&doc-lang=EN)

Germany - German Patent and Trade Mark Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Yes

Filing restrictions apply to:

Applications containing State secrets

Act on International Patent Conventions, Article III, Section 2 and Patent
Act, Section 52

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: DE

European patent: EP

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents

Utility models (a utility model may be sought instead of or in addition to a
national patent)

European:

Patents

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

Comprehensive information on the payment methods accepted by the DPMA is
available at:  
<https://www.dpma.de/english/services/fees/payment_transactions/index.html>

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a national patent:

The applicant may, from the date of publication in German (of the
international application or of a translation thereof), claim from any person
who uses the subject of the application, although he knew or should have known
that the invention used by him was the subject of the application,
compensation appropriate to the circumstances. The applicant is not entitled
to enjoin the use of the subject of the application. However, no claim for
compensation is provided for if the subject of the application is obviously
unpatentable (refer to Section 33, paragraph 2 of the Patent Act [PatG] and
Article III Section 8 of the Act on International Patent Conventions
[IntPatÜbkG]).

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a European patent:

(1) International application published in one of the EPO official languages:
compensation appropriate to the circumstances, on condition that the national
requirements (that a German translation of the claims in the application be
published or transmitted to a possible user) have been met (refer to Art. II,
Sections 1 and 2 of the Act on International Patent Conventions).

(2) International application published in a language which is not an EPO
official language: the protection referred to in (1) does not become effective
until the EPO publishes the translation of the international application
supplied to it in one of its official languages and the national requirements
referred to in (1) are met.

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

For national protection

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished later. If not already complied with
within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office
will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit
fixed in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning earlier national applications from
which priority is claimed and what are the effects of these provisions?

Article III, Section 4(4) of the Act on International Patent Conventions
provides that the filing of an international application designating Germany
and claiming the priority of an earlier national patent application or utility
model application filed with the German Patent and Trade Mark Office shall
have the result that the earlier national application is deemed withdrawn upon
entry into the national phase of the international application. However, this
will only take effect if the national application whose priority is claimed
relates to the same kind of protection as the international application (e.g.
patent/patent). Pursuant to Article III, Section 4(2) of the Act on
International Patent Conventions, the international application enters into
the national phase without further action by the applicant, provided the
German Patent and Trade Mark Office is both receiving Office and designated
Office and the international application has been filed in the German
language. In this case, the national filing fee is deemed paid by payment of
the transmittal fee (Article III, Section 4(2), last sentence of the Act on
International Patent Conventions). Consequently, if the applicant wants to
avoid the withdrawal of the earlier national application, pursuant to PCT Rule
4.9(b), he may exclude Germany from the automatic designation or may consider
withdrawing the designation of Germany subsequent to the filing of the
international application but before entry into the national phase

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

For a European patent

Refer to [Annex B(EP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=ep&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Germany

Language in which international applications may be filed:

German

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

German,

or German and English

Language in which the request may be filed:

German

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
If the receiving Office does not accept international applications in
electronic form in such format, the international application will be
transmitted to the International Bureau as receiving Office (PCT Rule
19.4(a)(ii-_bis_)).

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 19 May 2022, pages 132 _et seq._

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

No

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

No

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

No

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

No

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

90 EUR

International filing fee:

1,381 EUR

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

16 EUR

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

208 EUR

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

311 EUR

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EP)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

20 EUR

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant has his residence, principal place of business or an
establishment in Germany  
Yes, if the applicant has neither his residence, nor principal place of
business, nor an establishment in Germany

Who can act as agent?

If an agent is required: any patent attorney, attorney-at-law, or firm of
representatives established in Germany and authorized to represent the
applicant in proceedings before the Office; 1

any patent attorney or attorney-at-law of a member State of the European
Union, of a contracting party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area,
or of Switzerland, authorized to either practice in Germany, or to provide
temporary services, and empowered to represent the applicant in proceedings
before the Office (refer to the _Act on the Activities of Patent Attorneys
from EU member states in Germany (EuPAG) and the Act on the Activities of
European Lawyers in Germany (EuRAG)_)

If an agent is not required: as mentioned above and any natural person 2

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

If the agent is _not_ :

— a patent attorney or an attorney-at-law admitted to practice in Germany,

— a patent attorney or an attorney-at-law of a member State of the European
Union, of a contracting party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area,
or of Switzerland, authorized to pursue certain professional activities (refer
to the _Act on the Activities of Patent Attorneys from EU member states in
Germany and the Act on the Activities of European Lawyers in Germany_) In case
of reasonable doubts regarding the agent’s entitlement to act In case of a
common representative

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

If the agent is _not_ :

— a patent attorney or an attorney-at-law admitted to practice in Germany,

— a patent attorney or an attorney-at-law of a member State of the European
Union, of a contracting party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area,
or of Switzerland, authorized to pursue certain professional activities (refer
to the _Act on the Activities of Patent Attorneys from EU member states in
Germany and the Act on the Professional Activities of European Lawyers in
Germany_)

In case of reasonable doubts regarding the agent’s entitlement to act

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

Sections 1(1), No. 3 and 3(2) of the Ordinance on the Deposit of Biological
Material [_BioMatHintV_]:

The name and address of the depositary institution at the time of filing (as
part of the application)

Where the applicant requests publication earlier than 16 months from the
priority date, the accession number not later than that request

Where the applicant has been notified that a right to inspection of files
exists, the accession number, one month from that notification

— any additional indications:

Section 1(1), No. 2, of the Ordinance on the Deposit of Biological Material:

At the time of filing (as part of the application)

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

Section 1(1), No. 2, of the Ordinance on the Deposit of Biological Material:

To the extent available to the applicant, relevant information on the
characteristics of the biological material

Additional information

Deposits may also be made for the purposes of patent procedure before the
German Patent and Trade Mark Office with any depositary institution having
acquired the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest
Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for
the Purposes of Patent Procedure (published further in this Annex) and with
any scientifically recognized institution that is legally, economically and
organizationally independent of the applicant and of the depositor and ensures
the proper storage and furnishing of samples in accordance with the Ordinance
on the Deposit of Biological Material.

The applicant may request that, until the grant of a patent or for 20 years
from the date of filing if the application is refused or withdrawn, a sample
shall only be issued to an independent expert nominated by the applicant. The
request shall be filed with the German Patent and Trade Mark Office before
technical preparations for publication of the international application are
considered to be completed.

At the time of filing, the applicant shall give his unreserved and irrevocable
authorization to the depositary institution to issue samples in accordance
with the Ordinance on the Deposit of Biological Material of 24 January 2005,
and shall furnish documentary evidence that the depositor has given an
undertaking to that effect, where the biological material has been deposited
by a third party.

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(3): 31 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

No

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or
39(1). A translation of the abstract is not required in case of a utility
model application

German

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or
39(1). A translation of the abstract is not required in case of a utility
model application

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

No

National fees:

Patents

Filing fee:

Must be paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1).
The filing fee for entry into the national phase is calculated on the basis of
the number of claims in the international application as originally filed, and
not as subsequently reduced, if applicable. A subsequent addition of claims
may increase the amount of the filing fee. For further general information,
refer to:  
<https://www.dpma.de/english/services/fees/patents/index.html>.

— international application with up to 10 claims

60 EUR

— international application with over 10 claims

60 EUR

— for each claim exceeding 10

30 EUR

Annual fee for the 3rd year

It is due on the last day of the month containing the second anniversary (24
months) of the international filing date. If the applicant does not initiate
early entry into the national phase, he does not have to pay the third annual
fee before the expiration of the 31-month time limit under PCT Article 22(3)
in conjunction with national law or 39(1)(b). In that case, the third annual
fee shall be paid without surcharge before the expiration of the second month
after the expiration of the 31-month time limit. If the third annual fee is
not paid within this two-month time limit, the fee may still be paid with a
surcharge before the expiration of the sixth month after the expiration of the
31-month time limit.

70 EUR

Utility models

Filing fee

Must be paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1).

40 EUR

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

No filing fee is payable if the international application was filed with the
German Patent and Trade Mark Office as receiving Office. The fee for
requesting examination is reduced where an international search report has
been established.

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Where the applicant is a legal entity, indication of the name of an officer
representing that entity

Declaration concerning the inventor and the right of the applicant to apply
for a patent 3

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in Germany

If the international application is for a patent and a utility model, the
translation must be furnished in duplicate

Furnishing, where applicable, of a nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence
listing in electronic form

Furnishing of any missing indication of the address and residence of each of
the applicants

Who can act as agent?

If an agent is required (because the applicant neither has his residence, nor
his principal place of business, nor an establishment in Germany): any patent
attorney, attorney-at-law, or firm of representatives established in Germany
and authorized to represent the applicant in proceedings before the Office 1

Any patent attorney or attorney-at-law of a member State of the European
Union, of a contracting party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area,
or of Switzerland, authorized to either practice in Germany, or to provide
temporary services, and empowered to represent the applicant in proceedings
before the Office (refer to the _Act on the Activities of Patent Attorneys
from EU member states in Germany (EuPAG) and the Act on the Activities of
European Lawyers in Germany (EuRAG)_)

If an agent is not required: as mentioned above and any natural person 2

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

No

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

No

##  The procedure in the national Phase

DE.01 FORMS FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

The Office has available special forms for entering the national phase (refer
to Annexes DE.II (patents) and DE.III (utility models)) which are available on
the Office’s website at:
<http://www.dpma.de/docs/service/formulare/patent/p2009.pdf> and
<http://www.dpma.de/docs/service/formulare/gebrauchsmuster/g6007.pdf>. These
forms should preferably (but need not) be used.

DE.02 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

DE.03 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

IntPatÜbkG Art. III,  Sec. 4(2),  PatKostG Sec. 2 (1),  PatKostZV Sec. 1  
The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex DE.I.

DE.04 DECLARATION CONCERNING THE INVENTOR AND THE RIGHT OF THE APPLICANT TO
APPLY FOR A PATENT

PatG Sec. 37  
For details, refer to the model of such declaration (not an official form for
international applications) in Annex DE.IV. Legalization is not required. For
time limits, refer to the Summary.

DE.05 REPRESENTATION

PatG Sec. 25  
Any person who has neither a residence nor a principal place of business nor
an establishment in Germany may participate in proceedings before the Office
if he/she has appointed as his/her representative an attorney-at-law or a
patent attorney who is sauthorized and empowered to represent him/her in
proceedings before the Office, before the Federal Patent Court and in civil
litigation affecting the patent, as well as to file an application for
criminal prosecution. Representation is also possible through any patent
attorney or attorney-at-law of a member State of the European Union, a
contracting party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area or of
Switzerland if such attorney is authorized and empowered to represent
applicants in proceedings before the Office, the Federal Patent Court and in
civil litigation affecting a patent, as well as to file motions for criminal
prosecution. The authorization is subject to the relevant provisions governing
admission to the profession of attorney-at-law or patent attorney as well as
to the provisions concerning the temporary provision of services; patent
attorneys of the above mentioned states providing temporary services in
Germany need to be registered with the Chamber of Patent Attorneys.

DE.06 POWER OF ATTORNEY

DPMAV Sec. 15  
If an agent is appointed, a written power of attorney must generally be filed,
exceptions apply inter alia for attorneys-at-law and patent attorneys acting
as agents.

DE.07 ANNUAL FEES

PatG Sec. 17, PatKostG Sec. 3(2), PatKostG Sec. 7(1), IntPatÜbkG Art. III Sec.
4(2), IntPatÜbkG Art. III Sec. 6(2)  
They are payable for the third and each subsequent year following the
international filing date. The annual fees are due on the last day of the
month containing the anniversary of the international filing date. The fees
shall be paid before the expiration of the second month after the due date.
Where the fee is not paid within the two-month time limit, payment can still
be made with a surcharge before the expiration of the sixth month after the
due date. If the applicant does not initiate early entry into the national
phase, he does not have to pay the third annual fee before the expiration of
the 31-month time limit under PCT Article 22(3) in conjunction with national
law or Article 39(1)(b). In that case, the third annual fee shall be paid
without surcharge before the expiration of the second month after the
expiration of the 31-month time limit. If the third annual fee is not paid
within this two-month time limit, the fee may still be paid with a surcharge
before the expiration of the sixth month after the expiration of the 31-month
time limit. The amounts of the annual fees and of the surcharge are indicated
in Annex DE.I.

DE.08 REQUEST FOR EXAMINATION

PatG Sec. 44  
A patent will be granted only after examination as to patentability which may
be requested by the applicant or by a third party. There is no special form
for the request.

DE.09 TIME LIMIT FOR REQUESTING EXAMINATION

PatG Sec. 44(2)  
Examination must be requested within seven years from the international filing
date.

DE.10 FEE FOR REQUESTING EXAMINATION

PatG Sec. 44 (2),  PatKostG Sec. 3(1),  PatKostG Sec. 5(1),  IntPatÜbkG Art.
III,  Sec. 7  
The fee for requesting examination must be paid within three months from the
date of the request but no later than seven years from the international
filing date. Processing of the request for examination will only start after
the fee for requesting examination has been paid. The amount of the said fee
is indicated in Annex DE.I. It is reduced where an international search report
has been established.

DE.11 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  PatG Sec. 38  
Before any decision is taken on the grant of a patent, amendments may be made
to any part of the application, provided that the scope of the subject matter
of the application is not broadened thereby, but only until the request for
examination has been received, if the amendment involves the rectification of
an obvious mistake, correction of a deficiency noted by the Examining Section
or amendments to the claims.

It is to be noted that, during opposition procedure following the grant of the
patent, amendments to the description, claims or drawings may still be made,
but only within the scope of the patent as granted.

DE.12 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51,  IntPatÜbkG Art. III,  Sec. 5,  PatG Sec. 65(1),
PatG Sec. 73  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. If, upon review under PCT Article 25, the Office denies an
error or omission on the part of the receiving Office or the International
Bureau, an appeal against this decision may be lodged within one month from
the date of receipt of the decision. Within the same one-month time limit, a
fee for appeal must be paid. The Federal Patent Court will then decide on the
appeal.

DE.13 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2),  PatG Sec. 123,  PatG Sec. 123a,  GebrMG Sec.
21  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.
Reinstatement may be requested where the applicant, through no fault of his
own, has failed to comply with a (statutory) time limit during the
international phase or before the Office and non-observance of the time limit
is detrimental to his rights. Reinstatement is excluded, however, for missing
of the time limit for filing an application for which priority of an earlier
German application is claimed, whereas reinstatement may be requested if
priority of an earlier foreign application is claimed. A request for
reinstatement must be presented in writing within two months after the removal
of the cause of the failure to perform the action but not later than one year
from the expiration of the time limit which has not been observed. Within
these two months, the omitted act must be completed and the request must state
the facts which justify the reinstatement; these facts must be substantiated
[glaubhaft machen]. In addition, it is possible to request further processing
of the application if the application has been rejected following a failure to
observe a time limit fixed by the Office. The request for further processing
shall be filed within one month after notification of the decision to reject
the application. The omitted act must be completed within this time limit and
a fee must be paid. The amounts of fees for further processing are indicated
in Annex DE.I. Reinstatement of rights in respect of the time limit to request
further processing is not possible.

DE.14 UTILITY MODEL

PCT Art. 4(3),  PCT Art. 43,  PCT Art. 44,  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1,  PCT Rule 49
_bis_.1(a),  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1(b),  PCT Rule 76.5,  IntPatÜbkG Art. III,
Sec. 4(1),  GebrMG Sec. 4,  GebrMG Sec. 23(1)  
If the applicant wishes to obtain utility model registration in Germany on the
basis of an international application

(i) instead of a patent or

(ii) in addition to a patent,

the applicant, when performing the acts referred to in PCT Article 22 or
39(1), shall so indicate to the designated Office. Where no special acts are
required for entry into the national phase, because the Office is both the
receiving Office and designated Office, and the application was filed in
German, the applicant shall nonetheless be responsible for the timely
execution of his right of choice under PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1.

DE.15

PatKostG Sec. 3(2),  PatKostG Sec. 7(1)  
If the international application is for a utility model instead of a patent
(refer to the case referred to in paragraph DE.14(i)), the requirements are
basically the same as for patent applications except that the applicant is not
required:

(i) to furnish a translation of the abstract,

(ii) to furnish a declaration concerning the inventor,

(iii) to make a request for examination, and

(iv) to pay annual fees.

Instead of annual fees, maintenance fees become due for utility models. The
due date, amounts and terms of protection are indicated in Annex DE.I. The
maximum term of protection is 10 years from the international filing date.

DE.16

IntPatÜbkG Art. III,  Sec. 4(2)  
If the international application is for both a utility model and a patent
(refer to the case referred to in paragraph DE.14(ii)), the applicant must,
within the time limit applicable for entry into the national phase, comply
with the following requirements:

(i) pay two filing fees for both the patent application and the utility model
application,

(ii) where the international application was not filed in German, furnish a
translation into German,

(iii) furnish the translation of the international application (if any) in
duplicate.

The requirement (iii) may still be complied with within a time limit fixed in
an invitation by the Office, if not already complied with within the time
limit applicable for entry into the national phase.

DE.17

GebrMG Sec. 5  
In addition to the options mentioned under DE.14 a national utility model
application concerning the subject matter of an earlier national,
international or European patent application for a national or European patent
for Germany may according to national law claim the filing date of that
earlier patent application provided the utility model application is filed
before the expiration of two months from the end of the month in which the
patent application is disposed of or in which the opposition procedure, if
any, is terminated, at the latest, however, up to the end of the tenth year
from the date of filing of the patent application. Any priority which is
claimed in the earlier patent application under the Paris Convention for the
Protection of Industrial Property will also apply to the subsequent utility
model application.

##  Annexes

Annex DE.I - Fees

Patents

Filing fee:

Where the international application has been filed with the German Patent and
Trade Mark Office as receiving Office, the filing fee is considered to have
been paid with the payment of the transmittal fee (IntPatÜbkG Art. III, Sec.
4(2)). The filing fee for entry into the national phase is calculated on the
basis of the number of claims in the international application as originally
filed, and not as subsequently reduced, if applicable. A subsequent addition
of claims may increase the amount of the filing fee. For further general
information, refer to:  
<https://www.dpma.de/english/services/fees/patents/index.html>

— international application with up to 10 claims

60 EUR

— international application with over 10 claims

60 EUR

— for each claim exceeding 10

30 EUR

Fee for requesting examination:

(i) where an international search report has been established

150 EUR

(ii) where no international search report has been established

350 EUR

Annual fees:

Annual fees are reduced by 50% in case of a declaration to the German Patent
and Trade Mark Office that the applicant or proprietor is willing to allow
anyone to use the invention in return for equitable remuneration (PatG, Sec.
23 (1)).

— for the 3rd year

70 EUR

— for the 4th year

70 EUR

— for the 5th year

100 EUR

— for the 6th year

150 EUR

— for the 7th year

210 EUR

— for the 8th year

280 EUR

— for the 9th year

350 EUR

— for the 10th year

430 EUR

— for the 11th year

540 EUR

— for the 12th year

680 EUR

— for the 13th year

830 EUR

— for the 14th year

980 EUR

— for the 15th year

1,130 EUR

— for the 16th year

1,310 EUR

— for the 17th year

1,490 EUR

— for the 18th year

1,670 EUR

— for the 19th year

1,840 EUR

— for the 20th year

2,030 EUR

Surcharge for late payment of the annual fee

50 EUR

Fee for further processing

100 EUR

Utility models

Filing fee:

Where the international application has been filed with the German Patent and
Trade Mark Office as receiving Office, the filing fee is considered to have
been paid with the payment of the transmittal fee (IntPatÜbkG Art. III, Sec.
4(2)).

40 EUR

— international application

40 EUR

Maintenance fees:

— for the 4th to the 6th year of protection

210 EUR

— for the 7th and the 8th years of protection

350 EUR

— for the 9th and the 10th years of protection

530 EUR

Surcharge for late payment of the maintenance fee

50 EUR

Fee for further processing

100 EUR

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of the fees has to be effected in Euro. All payments must indicate
the application number (national, if already known; international, if the
national application number is not yet known), the name of the applicant and
the category of fee being paid

Payment of fees can be made by:

(a) payment by cash directly to the Office;

(b) bank transfer or payment by cash into the account of the Bundeskasse
Halle/DPMA (No. 700 010 54 at the:

Deutsche Bundesbank (BBk) München

IBAN  
DE84 7000 0000 0070 001054

BIC/SWIFT code  
MARKDEF1700

Customers should declare that any handling charges are borne by the payer;

(c) submitting a valid “SEPA Core Direct Debit Mandate” together with the
“Specification of the purpose of the use of the mandate. The forms “SEPA Core
Direct Debit Mandate” and “Specification of the purpose of use of the mandate”
provided by the Office in German and English language should preferably be
used.

Applicants must choose a mode of payment guaranteeing that the _full amount of
the fees due_ is received by the Office. There is a danger of loss of rights
if bank charges are deducted.

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex DE.II - National processing request form
(patents)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_de.pdf)

[Annex DE.III - National processing request form (utility
models)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_de.pdf)

[Annex DE.IV - Declaration concerning the
inventor](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_IV_de.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a b The list of patent attorneys may be obtained from the
Patentanwaltskammer (Chamber of Patent Attorneys), Postfach 260108, 80058
München, Germany, and the list of attorneys-at-law from the
Bundesrechtsanwaltskammer (Chamber of Attorneys-at-Law), Littenstrasse 9,
10179 Berlin, Germany.  
2 ^ a b In accordance with the provisions of the Legal Services Act
(Rechtsdienstleistungsgesetz – RDG).  
3 ^ a This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  

Change(s) as of 4 April 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental Organization

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

Comprehensive information on the payment methods accepted by the DPMA is
available at:  
<https://www.dpma.de/english/services/fees/payment_transactions/index.html>

  

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

No

  

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

No

  

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

No

  

  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

No

  

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

No

  

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

No

  

Close

Current version applicable from 4 Apr 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

