####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
DJ - Useful informationDJ - International PhaseDJ - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationDJ - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeDJ - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialDJ - National PhaseDJ - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseDJ - The procedure in the national PhaseDJ - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide DJ - Djibouti  
Office of Industrial Property and Commerce of Djibouti (ODPIC)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **1 March 2024**

(published on 1 February 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
RO: RO fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 1 Jan 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for DJ - Office of Industrial Property and Commerce of Djibouti \(ODPIC\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Office of Industrial Property and Commerce of Djibouti (ODPIC)

DPL : Law No. 50/AN/09/6th L on the Protection of Industrial Property

DL 079 : Decree No. 2011-079/PR/MDCC implementing Law No. 50/AN/09/6th L

List of currencies used in this document:

DJF (Djibouti franc), USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=DJ).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Friday and Saturday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Djibouti

Two-letter code:

[DJ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=DJ&doc-lang=EN)

Djibouti - Office of Industrial Property and Commerce of Djibouti (ODPIC)

Name of Office:

Office of Industrial Property and Commerce of Djibouti (ODPIC)

Location:

Plateau du Serpent  
Avenue Mohamed Dileita  
Immeuble Lyautey  
Ville de Djibouti  
Djibouti

Mailing address:

BP 2017  
Ville de Djibouti  
Djibouti

Telephone:

(253) 21 35 60 11

E-mail:

dj.epct@odpic.dj

Website:

<http://www.odpic.dj>

Facsimile:

(253) 21 35 60 92

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by e-mail

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes, within one month from the date of the transmission, if the transmitted
document is the international application or a replacement sheet containing
corrections or amendments of an international application

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

Yes

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

provided that the delivery service is:  
DHL  
Federal Express

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[DJ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=DJ&doc-lang=EN)

Djibouti - Office of Industrial Property and Commerce of Djibouti (ODPIC)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[DJ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=DJ&doc-lang=EN)

Djibouti - Office of Industrial Property and Commerce of Djibouti (ODPIC)

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Certificates of addition

Patents

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished later. If not already complied with
within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office
will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit
fixed in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Djibouti

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3).

Arabic,

English,

French

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Arabic,

English,

French,

or English and another filing language

Language in which the request may be filed:

Arabic,

English,

French

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

3

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notifications by the Office, refer to Official Notices (PCT
Gazette) dated 14 October 2021, pages 166 _et seq._ and 1 September 2022, page
239.

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
If the receiving Office does not accept international applications in
electronic form in such format, the international application will be
transmitted to the International Bureau as receiving Office (PCT Rule
19.4(a)(ii-_bis_)).

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies both the “unintentional” and the “due care” criteria
to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[EG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EG&doc-lang=EN)

Egypt - Egyptian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[EG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EG&doc-lang=EN)

Egypt - Egyptian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

1

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

None

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

235 USD

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

352 USD

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(AT)  
Annex D(EG)  
Annex D(EP)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

None

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

None

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Djibouti  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any natural or legal person resident in Djibouti

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Not applicable

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Not applicable

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

None

— any additional indications:

None

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, relevant information on the
characteristics of the microorganism

Additional information

For the purposes of patent procedure before the Office of Industrial Property
and Commerce of Djibouti (ODPIC), a deposit is required not later than at the
date of filing the international application. A receipt attesting the deposit
and its acceptance issued by the depositary institution with which the
microorganism was deposited must be submitted to ODPIC within the time limit
applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1).

Where the biological material has been deposited by a person other than the
applicant, the reference to such a deposit must include the name and address
of the depositor and a statement that the latter has authorized the applicant
to refer to the deposited biological material in the application and has given
his unreserved and irrevocable consent to the deposited material being made
available to the public.

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Arabic,

English,

French

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended), any text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Patents

Filing fee

172,500 DJF

Certificate of addition

Filing fee

172,500 DJF

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in Djibouti

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application 2

Statement or notice as to the applicant’s entitlement to apply for and be
granted a patent 2

Statement or notice as to the applicant’s entitlement to claim priority of the
earlier application 2

Instrument of assignment of the international application if the applicant has
changed after the international filing date

Who can act as agent?

Any natural or legal person resident in Djibouti

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies both the “unintentional” and the “due care” criteria
to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

DJ.01 FORM FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

The Office has available a special form for entering the national phase (refer
to Annex DJ.II). This form should preferably (but need not) be used.

DJ.02 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

PCT Art. 46  
Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

DJ.03 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex DJ.I.

DJ.04 INVENTOR

DPL 18  
The indication of the name of the inventor is required and must be furnished,
at the latest, at the time of entry into the national phase. If the applicant
has not complied with the requirement within the prescribed time limit under
PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite him to comply within a time
limit of three months from the receipt of the invitation. If the inventor is
an employee, in the absence of any more favorable contractual provision for
the employee, the inventions made by the employee belong to the employer if
the employment contract specifies the inventive character of the employee’s
work.

DJ.05 EXAMINATION

DPL 41  
The Office will base the grant of the patent on the results of the
international search and examination.

DJ.06 GRANT OF THE PATENT

DPL 47  
Patents are granted after expiry of the three-month time limit from the date
of publication of the patent application, provided that there is no
opposition.

DJ.07 APPOINTMENT OF AN AGENT

DPL 4  
If the applicant does not reside in Djibouti, an agent domiciled or registered
to practice in Djibouti, must be appointed. A power of attorney is required.

DJ.08 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  DPL 41  
Amendments or corrections may be made in the national phase up to the grant of
the patent, provided that the scope of the subject matter of the application
is not broadened thereby (subject to the payment of the fee for amendment
indicated in Annex DJ.I).

DJ.09 CERTIFICATE OF ADDITION

DPL 30  
The applicant may, upon entry into the national phase, apply for a certificate
of addition or a patent. Upon request of the applicant, an application for a
certificate of addition may be converted into an application for a patent at
any time before grant of the certificate of addition. The conversion into an
application for a patent takes effect from the date of the international
filing date of the application.

DJ.10 MAINTENANCE FEE

DPL 81,  DL079 Art. 39  
A maintenance fee is due as from the sixth year after the international filing
date until the expiration of the patent protection period. It has to be paid
for each period of five years. The payment has to be made at the latest on the
anniversary of the international filing date. Payment can be made together
with a surcharge for late payment (refer to Annex DJ.I) within an additional
period of six months from the date of anniversary of the international filing
date.

DJ.11 RESTORATION OF A LAPSED PATENT

DPL 81  
If a patent lapses through non-payment of maintenance fees, an application for
restoration may be made within three months from the date when the patent has
lapsed and subject to the payment of fees before the expiration of the three-
month period.

DJ.12 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase.

DJ.13 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24.2,  PCT Art. 48.2,  PCT Rule 82 _bis_  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.

DJ.14 REINSTATEMENT OF RIGHTS

PCT Art. 37,  PCT Rule 49.6  
Reinstatement of rights may be requested within six months following the
expiration of the time limit to enter the national phase, where the applicant,
in spite of due care required by the circumstances having been taken, failed
to perform the acts referred to in Article 22 within the applicable time
limit. The request for reinstatement of rights (late entry into the national
phase) must justify that the delay was unintentional, and the prescribed fee
must be paid. The ODPIC will decide whether reinstatement of rights may be
granted within a delay of seven days from receipt of the request.

##  Annexes

Annex DJ.I - Fees

Patents

Filing fee (comprising examination fee, grant fee, publication fee and
maintenance fees for the first 5 years)

172,500 DJF

Fee for amendment

10,000 DJF

Maintenance fees :

— for the 6th to the 10th years

75,000 DJF

— for the11th to the 15th years

100,000 DJF

— for the 16th to the 20th years

125,000 DJF

Surcharge for late payment of maintenance fee

20,000 DJF

Fee for restoration of the right of priority

None

Fee for reinstatement of rights (late entry into the national phase)

20,000 DJF

Certificates of addition

Filing fee

172,500 DJF

Fee for amendment

10,000 DJF

Maintenance fees :

— for the 6th to the 10th years

75,000 DJF

— for the 11th to the 15th years

100,000 DJF

— for the 16th to the 20th years

125,000 DJF

Surcharge for late payment of maintenance fees

20,000 DJF

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of fees must be effected in Djibouti francs or the equivalent
amount in US dollars. All payments must give the application number (national
if already known ; international if the national number is not yet known), the
name of the applicant and the category of fee being paid

The payment of fees can be effected in cash, by check or by bank transfer into
the following account :

Beneficiary  
Office of Industrial Property and Commerce of Djibouti (ODPIC)  
BP 2017  
Djibouti

Name of the bank  
Bank of Africa  
mer Rouge

Account No.  
10760930000

IBAN  
DJ21 1000 2010 0110 7609 3000 007

SWIFT code  
MRINDJJD

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex DJ.II - Request for entry into the national phase for a patent or a
certificate of addition](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_dj.pdf)

[Annex DJ.III - Statement of invention of an employee during the national
phase](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_dj.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office or by the Austrian Patent Office.  
2 ^ a b c This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration
has been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  

Change(s) as of 1 March 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

235 USD

  

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

352 USD

  

Close

Current version applicable from 1 Mar 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

