####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
DK - Useful informationDK - International PhaseDK - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationDK - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeDK - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialDK - National PhaseDK - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseDK - The procedure in the national PhaseDK - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide DK - Denmark  
Danish Patent and Trademark Office

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **2 May 2024**

(published on 2 May 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
Annexes: Various  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Jan 2024, 4 Apr 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for DK - Danish Patent and Trademark Office)).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Danish Patent and Trademark Office

DPL: Patents Act (Denmark)

DPO: Patents Order (Denmark)

DUL: Utility Models Act (Denmark)

DUO: Utility Models Order (Denmark)

List of currencies used in this document:

DKK (Danish krone)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=DK).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Denmark

Two-letter code:

[DK](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=DK&doc-lang=EN)

Denmark - Danish Patent and Trademark Office

Name of Office:

Danish Patent and Trademark Office

Location:

Helgeshøj Allé 81  
DK-2630 Taastrup  
Denmark

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(45-43) 50 80 00

E-mail:

pvs@dkpto.dk

Website:

<http://www.dkpto.org>

Facsimile:

(45-43) 50 80 01

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by e-mail or facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

No, only upon invitation

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

Yes, the Office is prepared to allow applicants to make international and
national applications available to the WIPO DAS

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[DK](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=DK&doc-lang=EN)

Denmark - Danish Patent and Trademark Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Patents Act, section 70 and the Consolidate Secret Patents Act, section 2 and
2a.

Yes, filing restrictions apply to:

International applications for inventions relating to war material or
processes for the manufacture of war material by a person or enterprise
residing in Denmark, or by a Danish institution, must be filed through the
Danish Patent and Trademark Office, and may only be granted as secret patents
with authorisation from the (Danish) Minister of Defence.

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: DK

European patent: EP

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents

Utility models (a utility model may be sought instead of or in addition to a
national patent)

European:

Patents

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

Payments can be made in the Danish Patent and Trademark Offices self-service
solution “PVS Pay”: <https://pay.dkpto.dk/> using the following accepted
credit cards: Dankort, VISA/Dankort, EURO/Mastercard, American Express, VISA,
VISA Electron, JCB and Mobilpay.

Payment may also be effected by transfer to the following bank details:  
Danske Bank  
Holmens Kanal 2-12  
DK-1092 København K.

Reg. No.  
0216

Account No.  
4069056296

SWIFT  
DABADKKK

IBAN  
DK6602164069056296

EAN  
5798000025004

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

Section 9 of the Patents Act and Sections 4 and 37 of the Patents Order

Provisional protection after international publication:

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a national patent:

After the furnishing of a translation into Danish or, if the international
application was filed in Danish, of a copy of the international application as
filed, or if the international application is filed in English or translated
into English when the claims have been filed in Danish, the applicant is given
provisional protection in the sense that he, upon grant of the patent, is
entitled to damages. These are limited to what is judged reasonable under the
circumstances and the protection is limited to what is claimed in both the
application and the patent. Refer to Sections 33, 58 and 60 of the Patents
Act.

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a European patent:

Compensation reasonable in the circumstances, on condition that any national
requirements relating to the translation into Danish of the claims of the
application have been met, and upon grant of the patent. Protection is limited
to what is claimed in both the application and the patent (refer to Section
83(2) of the Patents Act).

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

For national protection

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished later. If not already complied with
within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)(a), the Office
will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit
fixed in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

For a European patent

Refer to [Annex B(EP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=ep&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Denmark

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3). If the language
in which the international application is filed is not a language of
publication and no translation is required for the purposes of international
search (PCT Rule 12.3(a)), the applicant will have to furnish a translation of
the application into English, French or German (PCT Rule 12.4(a)).

Danish,

English,

French,

German,

Icelandic,

Norwegian,

Swedish

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Danish,

English,

French,

German,

Icelandic,

Norwegian,

Swedish,

or English and another filing language

Language in which the request may be filed:

English,

French,

German

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts XML and PDF files filed using ePCT-Filing or EPO
Online Filing

For the relevant notifications by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 7 July 2016, pages 157 _et seq._ and 21 July 2022, page
186.

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C
of the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

Yes. In Denmark it is possible to file a drawing or photograph in color (or
greyscale) via the filing system, however whether we accept color drawings on
an informal basis and transmit them to IB will depend on the concrete case.
But as a starting point color or greyscale drawings are handled in accordance
with the PCT Rule 11.13(a).

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[SE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SE&doc-lang=EN)

Sweden - Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV)

,

[XN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=XN&doc-lang=EN)

Nordic Patent Institute - Nordic Patent Institute

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[SE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SE&doc-lang=EN)

Sweden - Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV)

,

[XN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=XN&doc-lang=EN)

Nordic Patent Institute - Nordic Patent Institute

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

1,500 DKK

International filing fee:

10,300 DKK

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

120 DKK

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

1,550 DKK

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

2,320 DKK

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(SE)  
Annex D(XN)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

300 DKK

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

3,000 DKK

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

However, the Office will invite the applicant to appoint an agent, if it finds
that it is necessary in the interest of the applicant (Patents Act, Section
12)

No

Who can act as agent?

Any natural or legal person resident in the European Economic Area

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent or a common
representative who was not indicated on the request form at the time of filing

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent or a common
representative who was not indicated on the request form at the time of filing

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

Where applicant requests publication earlier than 16 months from the priority
date, not later than that request

— any additional indications:

At the time of filing (as part of the application)

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, all significant information on the
characteristics of the microorganism

Additional information

The applicant may request that, until the application has been laid open to
public inspection (by the Danish Patent and Trademark Office), or has been
finally decided upon by the Danish Patent and Trademark Office without having
been laid open to public inspection, the furnishing of a sample shall only be
effected to an expert in the art. The request to this effect shall be filed by
the applicant with the Danish Patent and Trademark Office not later than at
the time when the application is made available to the public under Sections
22(7) and 33(3) of the Danish Patents Act and Section 24(1) of the Danish
Order on Patents and Supplementary Protection Certificates. If such a request
has been filed by the applicant, any request made by a third party for the
furnishing of a sample shall indicate the expert to be used. That expert may
be any person entered on a list of recognized experts drawn up by the Danish
Patent and Trademark Office or any person approved by the applicant in the
individual case, Section 24(2) of the Danish Order on Patents and
Supplementary Protection Certificates.

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(3): 31 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes, the Office permits reinstatement of rights under the "due care"
criterion.

Fee for reinstatement of rights

3,000 DKK

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Where the filing fee has been paid within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the translation may be filed within two months from the
expiration of that time limit, provided that the additional fee for late
furnishing of the translation is also paid within those two months

Danish,

English

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Where the filing fee has been paid within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the translation may be filed within two months from the
expiration of that time limit, provided that the additional fee for late
furnishing of the translation is also paid within those two months

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, as amended only), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, only as amended by the
annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

The applicant should only send a copy of the international application if
he/she has not received Form PCT/IB/308 and the Office has not received a copy
of the international application from the International Bureau under PCT
Article 20. This may be the case where the applicant expressly requests an
earlier start of the national phase under PCT Article 23(2)

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

Drawings and photographs are accepted upon submission in both color and, black
and white. The application will be published in black and white, and details
in a color drawing may therefore disappear when the application is published.

National fees:

Filing fee:

Must be paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)

Basic fee

3,000 DKK

Claim fee for each claim in excess of 10

300 DKK

Additional fee for late furnishing of translation or copy

Where the filing fee has been paid within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the translation may be filed within two months from the
expiration of that time limit, provided that the additional fee for late
furnishing of the translation is also paid within those two months

1,100 DKK

Annual fees for the first three years

1,500 DKK

These fees are due on the last day of the month containing the second
anniversary (24 months) of the international filing date; where PCT Article
39(1) applies, they are payable within two months after performing the acts
for entering the national phase, unless the 24-month time limit has not yet
expired

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has been
made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application

Who can act as agent?

Any natural or legal person resident in the European Economic Area

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

DK.01 FORM FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

The Office has available a special form for entering the national phase (refer
to Annex DK.II; an editable version of this form is also available at:  
<https://pvs-efiling.dkpto.dk/en>). This form should preferably (but need not)
be used.

DK.02 LANGUAGE OF PROCEEDINGS

DPO Sec. 6, DPO Sec. 97  
The description, the claims, any text matter of drawings and the abstract of
the international application must be in English or in Danish. The claims must
be translated into Danish before a patent is granted.

DK.03 TRANSLATION (LATE FURNISHING OF)

DPL Sec. 31(2),  DPL Sec. 98(3)  
If the translation of the international application has not been furnished by
the applicant within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)
but the national fee indicated in the Summary has been paid within that time
limit, the translation can still be furnished within a further period of two
months, provided that the additional fee for late furnishing of the
translation, indicated in the Summary, has been paid within those two months.

DK.04 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

DPL Sec. 13  
Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

DK.05 TRANSLATION (IN CASE OF LACK OF UNITY OF INVENTION)

DPO Sec. 84(2)  
Where a part of the international application was not subjected to an
international search for reason of lack of unity of the invention, a
translation is required only of those parts of the international application
which were subjected to the international search. However, where the applicant
wants to maintain the part which was not searched, a translation of this part
must also be furnished. Also refer to paragraph DK.08.

DK.06 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

DPL Sec. 8(4)  
The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex DK.I.

DK.07 POWER OF ATTORNEY

DPL Sec. 12,  DPL Sec. 33  
An agent may be appointed either by filing a separate power of attorney or in
the special form referred to in paragraph DK.01 (refer to Annex DK.II). A
model of a separate power of attorney is given in Annex DK.III.

DK.08 ADDITIONAL SEARCH OR EXAMINATION REPORT (IN CASE OF LACK OF UNITY OF
INVENTION)

PCT Art. 17(3)(b),  PCT Art. 34(3)(c),  DPL Sec. 36,  DPL Sec. 37  
Where a part of the international application was not subjected to
international search or preliminary examination because the international
application did not comply with the requirement of unity of invention and the
applicant did not pay the additional search or preliminary examination fee to
the International Searching or Preliminary Examining Authority, the Office
will decide whether the said finding as regards the application translated
into Danish or English was correct. If this is found to be the case, the
Office will invite the applicant to pay an additional fee within two months
after mailing of the notification of this decision. The amount of the said fee
is indicated in Annex DK.I. Where the applicant does not pay the additional
fee, that part of the international application which was not subjected to
international search or preliminary examination will be considered withdrawn.

DK.09 PUBLICATION FEE

DPL Sec. 19  
A publication fee must be paid within two months after the date of the
decision to grant. The amount of the fee is indicated in Annex DK.I.

DK.10 ANNUAL FEES

DPL Sec. 8(5),  DPL Sec. 40,  DPL Sec. 41,  DPL Sec. 42  
Annual fees must be paid for each year following the international filing
date. For the due date of the annual fees for the first three years, refer to
the Summary. Payment of the subsequent annual fees must be made before the
expiration of the month containing the anniversary of the international filing
date. Payment can still be made, together with a 20% surcharge for late
payment, before the expiration of the sixth month after the month containing
the anniversary of the international filing date. The amounts of the annual
fees are indicated in Annex DK.I.

DK.11 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  DPL Sec. 13  
The applicant may make the following modifications before the Office, provided
that the scope of the subject matter of the application is not broadened
thereby:

DPL Sec. 34, DPO Sec. 85(1)  
(i) within 24 months from the priority date or, where PCT Article 39(1)
applies, within 35 months from the priority date: corrections of defects and
voluntary amendments;

DPL Sec. 13,  DPL Sec. 19(2)  
(ii) up to the decision that the application is to be allowed for public
inspection: amendments or additions to the description and drawing(s) if they
are necessary to comply with general requirements under PCT Articles 5 and 7;
amendments or additions to the claims, which, unless the Office allows
otherwise, must be made by filing a new document comprising all of the claims
in sequence; where additions are made to the claims, the applicant must at the
same time file a statement indicating the reference basis for these additions.

DK.12 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25, PCT Rule 51, DPL Sec. 24, DPL Sec. 25, DPL Sec. 38, DPO Sec. 86  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. If, upon review under PCT Article 25, the Office denies an
error or omission on the part of the receiving Office or the International
Bureau, an appeal against this decision may be lodged, within two months from
the date of the decision, with the Board of Appeal. Within the same two-month
time limit, a fee for appeal must be paid (for the amount, refer to Annex
DK.I).

DK.13 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2)  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.

DK.14

DPL Sec. 72,  DPL Sec. 73  
Reestablishment of rights may be requested where the applicant, in spite of
all due care reasonably required, was unable to observe a time limit before
the Office, default of which is prejudicial to his rights. A request for
reestablishment must be presented in writing within two months after the
removal of the cause of the failure to perform the action but not later than
one year from the expiration of the time limit which has not been observed.
Within the said two months, the omitted action must be completed, the fee for
reestablishment of rights (refer to Annex DK.I) must be paid and the request
must state the grounds on which it is based and set out the facts on which it
relies.

DK.15

DPL Sec. 15(3)  
Resumption of proceedings concerning the application may be requested from the
Office where the applicant missed a time limit which has been fixed for a
certain action by the Office. Resumption of proceedings may not be requested
where the missed time limit is fixed in the PCT, the PCT Regulations, the
Patents Act or the Patents Order. A request for resumption of proceedings has
the effect that the proceedings for grant will be resumed, provided that,
within four months from the expiration of the missed time limit, the said
request is presented in writing, the resumption fee (refer to Annex DK.I) is
paid and the omitted act has been completed.

DK.16 UTILITY MODEL

PCT Art. 4(3),  PCT Art. 43,  PCT Art. 44,  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1,  PCT Rule 49
_bis_.1(a),  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1(b),  PCT Rule 76.5,  DUL Sec. 17,  DUO Sec. 1  
If the applicant wishes to obtain utility model registration in Denmark on the
basis of an international application

(i) instead of a patent, or

(ii) in addition to a patent, subject to what is said in paragraph DK.19, the
applicant, when performing the acts referred to in Article 22 or Article 39,
shall so indicate to the Office.

DK.17

DUL Sec. 38  
If the international application is for a utility model instead of a patent,
the requirements are basically the same as for patents. However the applicant
is not required to pay a fee for publication or annual fees. Instead of annual
fees, renewal fees have to be paid for utility models. The due dates and the
amounts are indicated in Annex DK.I. By payment of the two renewal fees, the
term of protection may be extended a first time from three to six years and a
second time from six to 10 years.

DK.18

If the international application is for both a utility model and a patent, the
applicant must, within the time limit applicable for entry into the national
phase, comply with the following requirements:

(i) pay filing fees for both the patent and the utility model,

(ii) furnish a translation of the international application into Danish in
duplicate,

(iii) file a power of attorney (if any) in duplicate.

DK.19

DUL Sec. 12,  DUO Sec. 13(1),  DUO Sec. 13(3),  DUO Sec. 14  
A utility model application concerning the subject matter of an earlier
national, international or converted European patent application for Denmark
filed after 8 July 1992 may use that earlier patent application as a basis for
the utility model application, provided the utility model application,
together with a request to that effect, is filed not later than two months
after the earlier patent application has been withdrawn, abandoned or refused
without possibility of reinstatement, at the latest, however, up to the end of
the tenth year from the date of filing of the earlier patent application.

##  Annexes

Annex DK.I - Fees

For further details, refer to Prices and Fees at:
<https://www.dkpto.org/about-ip-rights/prices-and-fees>

Patents

National fee

3,000 DKK

Additional fee for late furnishing of translation or copy

1,100 DKK

Claim fee for each claim in excess of 10

300 DKK

Publication fee

2,165 DKK

Resumption fee

700 DKK

Fee for reestablishment of rights

3,000 DKK

Appeal fee (refer to paragraph DK.13)

8,000 DKK

Fee for administrative re-examination

7,000 DKK

Fee for filing an opposition

2,500 DKK

Annual fees:

— for the 1st to the 3rd year

per year 535 DKK

— for the 4th year

1,190 DKK

— for the 5th year

1,350 DKK

— for the 6th year

1,510 DKK

— for the 7th year

1,730 DKK

— for the 8th year

1,950 DKK

— for the 9th year

2,215 DKK

— for the 10th year

2,485 DKK

— for the 11th year

2,760 DKK

— for the 12th year

3,030 DKK

— for the 13th year

3,300 DKK

— for the 14th year

3,575 DKK

— for the 15th year

3,900 DKK

— for the 16th year

4,225 DKK

— for the 17th year

4,550 DKK

— for the 18th year

4,880 DKK

— for the 19th year

5,200 DKK

— for the 20th year

5,525 DKK

Supplement for late payment

20% of the applicable annual fee

Fee for restoration of the right of priority

3,000 DKK

Utility models

National fee

2,000 DKK

Additional fee for late furnishing of translation or copy

1,100 DKK

Fee for Examination

4,000 DKK

Publication fee for amended utility model registration

1,100 DKK

Appeal fee

5,000 DKK

Renewal fees:

— for the 1st period

2,000 DKK

— for the 2nd period

3,000 DKK

Supplement for late payment

20% of the applicable renewal fee

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of fees has to be effected in Danish kroner. All payments must
indicate the national application number (however, if that number is not yet
known, the international application number may be used), the name of the
applicant and the category of fee being paid

Payment may be effected by transfer to the following bank  
Danske Bank  
Holmens Kanal 2-12  
DK-1092 København K.

Reg. No.  
0216

Account No.  
4069056296

SWIFT  
DABADKKK

IBAN  
DK6602164069056296

EAN  
5798000025004

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex DK.II - National processing request
form](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_dk.pdf)

[Annex DK.III - Power of
attorney](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_dk.pdf)

[Annex DK.IV - Deed of
transfer](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_IV_dk.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Change(s) as of 2 May 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annexes

Annex DK.I - Fees

For further details, refer to Prices and Fees at:
<https://www.dkpto.org/about-ip-rights/prices-and-fees>

  

Publication fee

2,165 DKK

  

— for the 1st to the 3rd year

per year 535 DKK

  

— for the 4th year

1,190 DKK

  

— for the 5th year

1,350 DKK

  

— for the 6th year

1,510 DKK

  

— for the 7th year

1,730 DKK

  

— for the 8th year

1,950 DKK

  

— for the 9th year

2,215 DKK

  

— for the 10th year

2,485 DKK

  

— for the 11th year

2,760 DKK

  

— for the 12th year

3,030 DKK

  

— for the 13th year

3,300 DKK

  

— for the 14th year

3,575 DKK

  

— for the 15th year

3,900 DKK

  

— for the 16th year

4,225 DKK

  

— for the 17th year

4,550 DKK

  

— for the 18th year

4,880 DKK

  

— for the 19th year

5,200 DKK

  

— for the 20th year

5,525 DKK

  

Close

Current version applicable from 2 May 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

