####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
DZ - Useful informationDZ - International PhaseDZ - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationDZ - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeDZ - National PhaseDZ - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseDZ - The procedure in the national PhaseDZ - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide DZ - Algeria  
Algerian National Institute of Industrial Property

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **15 September 2023**

(published on 15 September 2023)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
From now on, you will find here a summary of changes to each new version of
the PCT Applicant's Guide, as well as the detailed list of these changes.
Moreover, you can now easily access the historical versions of the Guide.  
  
RO: Languages, Electronic filing, RO fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for DZ - Algerian National Institute of Industrial Property)).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Algerian National Institute of Industrial Property

Institute: Algerian National Institute of Industrial Property

Ordinance: Ordinance No. 03.07 of 19 Joumada El Oula 1424, corresponding to 19
July 2003, relating to patents for inventions

List of currencies used in this document:

CHF (Swiss franc), DZD (Algerian dinar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=DZ).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Article 64(5), Rule 26 _bis_.3(j), Rule 49 _ter_.1(g), Rule 49 _ter_.2(h)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Friday and Saturday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Algeria

Two-letter code:

[DZ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=DZ&doc-lang=EN)

Algeria - Algerian National Institute of Industrial Property

Name of Office:

Algerian National Institute of Industrial Property

Location:

42 rue Larbi ben M’hidi  
Algiers  
Algeria

Mailing address:

B.P. 403  
Alger-Gare  
Algeria

Telephone:

(213-21) 73 59 39

E-mail:

e-pct@inapi.org

Website:

<http://www.inapi.org>

Facsimile:

(213-21) 73 55 81  
(213-21) 73 96 44

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes, within 14 days from the date of the transmission, if the transmitted
document is the international application or a replacement sheet containing
corrections or amendments of the international application

Yes, within one month from the date of the transmission, for any other
document

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes, provided that the delivery service is located in Algeria

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[DZ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=DZ&doc-lang=EN)

Algeria - Algerian National Institute of Industrial Property

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[DZ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=DZ&doc-lang=EN)

Algeria - Algerian National Institute of Industrial Property

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Certificates of addition

Patents

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If the data concerning the inventor are missing at the
expiration of the time limit under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will
invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit fixed
in the invitation

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

No

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Algeria

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3).

Arabic,

French

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

The Office has not specifically notified the International Bureau of the
language that it accepts under PCT Rule 12.1(d).

Same as above

Language in which the request may be filed:

Arabic,

French

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 25 June 2015, pages 104 _et seq._

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
If the receiving Office does not accept international applications in
electronic form in such format, the international application will be
transmitted to the International Bureau as receiving Office (PCT Rule
19.4(a)(ii-_bis_)).

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Competent International Searching Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

10,000 DZD

International filing fee:

1,330 CHF

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

15 CHF

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

200 CHF

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

300 CHF

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(AT)  
Annex D(EP)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

per page 400 DZD

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Algeria  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any patent attorney or patent agent registered to practice before the Office

Waiver of power of attorney:

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Refer to the Office

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Refer to the Office

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(3): 31 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Arabic

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, only as amended), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, only as amended by the
annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Filing fee and maintenance fee for the 1st year

7,500 DZD

Fee for priority claims

per priority 2,000 DZD

Publication fee

5,000 DZD

— Surcharge for each set of 5 pages in excess of 10

1,200 DZD

Maintenance fee:

— from the 2nd to the 5th year

per year 5,000 DZD

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in Algeria

Instrument of assignment of the international application if the applicant has
changed after the international filing date

Document evidencing a change of name of the applicant if the change occurred
after the international filing date and has not been reflected in a
notification from the International Bureau (Form PCT/IB/306)

Translation of the international application to be furnished in two copies

Who can act as agent?

Any patent attorney or patent agent registered to practice before the Office

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

No

##  The procedure in the national Phase

DZ.01 FORM FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

The Institute has available a form for entering the national phase (refer to
Annex DZ.II). This form should preferably be used.

DZ.02 LANGUAGE OF PROCEEDINGS

The language of proceedings can be either Arabic or French.

DZ.03 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as originally
filed (refer to National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

DZ.04 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in this Chapter is outlined in
Annex DZ.I.

DZ.05 REPRESENTATION

Ordinance Sec. 20  
Any applicant residing outside the national territory of Algeria must
designate an agent registered to practice before the Institute. A list of
registered agents is available at the Institute.

DZ.06 DEED OF ASSIGNMENT

Ordinance Sec. 36  
When the applicant entering the national phase is different from the applicant
in the international application, the applicant entering the national phase
must produce a deed which authorizes him to enter the national phase. As of
the time when the request for national phase entry has become effective, any
transfer of property must be inscribed in the Registry of Patents.

DZ.07 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION

PCT Sec. 28,  PCT Sec. 41,  PCT Rule 52,  PCT Rule 78  
Amendments are authorized if they are submitted to the Institute within one
month of the date of entry into the national phase of the relevant
application. The amendments are authorized in conformity with the Treaty and
its regulations. Amendments may be made to the description, the claims and the
drawings. Amendments must not go beyond the disclosure of the invention.

Ordinance Sec. 26  
Beyond the time limit given above, only purely physical errors may be
corrected. Such corrections are subject to the payment of a fee for the
rectification of physical errors.

DZ.08 EXAMINATION

Ordinance Sec. 31  
Patents are granted, without examination, for any applications which have
respected the due process. A certificate, established by the competent
service, highlighting that the application has respected the due process, is
delivered to the applicant and constitutes the patent.

DZ.09 ANNUAL FEES

Ordinance Sec. 9,  Ordinance Sec. 54  
An annual fee is due each year to keep the patent in force. The annual fees
(including the second and third annuities) applying to the years that have
passed since the international filing date must be paid, at the latest, upon
the date of the third anniversary of the international filing. Payment may
still be made within six months from the due date. In cases of late payment,
the annual fees will be subject to the payment of a surcharge. The amounts of
the annual fees are indicated in Annex DZ.I.

DZ.10 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Sec. 25,  PCT Rule 51  
The general outline of the applicable procedure is given in paragraphs 6.018
to 6.021 of the National Phase.

DZ.11 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Sec. 24.2),  PCT Sec. 48.2)  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.

##  Annexes

Annex DZ.I - Fees

Patents

Filing fee and 1st annual fee

7,500 DZD

Fee for priority claims

2,000 DZD

Publication fee

5,000 DZD

Publication fee for each 5 pages in addition to the 10 first pages

1,200 DZD

Publication fee for small format drawings in excess of three

400 DZD

Annual fees:

The surcharge for late payment of the annual fee is equal to the amount of the
unpaid annual fee

— for the 2nd to the 5th years

per year 5,000 DZD

— for the 6th to the 10th years

per year 8,000 DZD

— for the 11th to the 15th years

per year 12,000 DZD

— for the 16th to the 20th years

per year 18,000 DZD

Fee for restoration

5,000 DZD

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of fees can be effected in cash, by check directly at the
Institute or by bank transfer into:

Account No.  
00200012120326418071

at Banque Extérieure d’Algérie  
12 avenue Amirouche  
Algiers

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex DZ.II - Request form for entry into the national
phase](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_dz.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Change(s) as of 15 September 2023 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference.
Mouse hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

The Office has not specifically notified the International Bureau of the
language that it accepts under PCT Rule 12.1(d).

Same as above

  

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 25 June 2015, pages 104 _et seq._

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
If the receiving Office does not accept international applications in
electronic form in such format, the international application will be
transmitted to the International Bureau as receiving Office (PCT Rule
19.4(a)(ii-_bis_)).

  

Transmittal fee:

10,000 DZD

  

Close

Current version applicable from 15 Sep 2023 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

