####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
EE - Useful informationEE - International PhaseEE - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationEE - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeEE - National PhaseEE - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseEE - The procedure in the national PhaseEE - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide EE - Estonia  
Estonian Patent Office

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **11 April 2024**

(published on 12 April 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
GENERAL INFO: Payment methods  
RO: Electronic filing, Incorporation by reference  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase: National phase,
Restoration of the right of priority, Reinstatement of rights  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Jan 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for EE - Estonian Patent Office)).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Estonian Patent Office

EPL: Estonian Patent Law

EUL: Estonian Utility Model Law

PAA: Patent Attorneys Act

List of currencies used in this document:

EUR (Euro)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=EE).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Estonia

Two-letter code:

[EE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EE&doc-lang=EN)

Estonia - Estonian Patent Office

Name of Office:

Estonian Patent Office

Location:

Tatari 39  
15041 Tallinn  
Estonia

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(372) 627 79 00  
Reception  
(372) 627 79 11

E-mail:

patendiamet@epa.ee

Website:

<http://www.epa.ee>

Facsimile:

(372) 645 79 12

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

Yes, the Office is prepared to allow applicants to make national applications
available to the WIPO DAS

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[EE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EE&doc-lang=EN)

Estonia - Estonian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: EE

European patent: EP

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents

Utility models (a utility model may be sought instead of or in addition to a
patent)

European:

Patents

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

Payment of fees must be effected in euros. All payments must indicate the
national application number (however, if that number is not yet known, the
international application number may be used), the name of the applicant and
the category of the fee being paid, as well as the mandatory Office reference
2900082362

Payment may be effected into one of the four accounts of the
Rahandusministeerium [Ministry of Finance] at:

— SEB Pank  
Tornimäe 2  
15010 Tallinn

account No.  
10220034796011

IBAN  
EE891010220034796011

SWIFT code  
EEUHEE2X

— Swedbank  
Liivalaia 8  
15040 Tallinn

account No.  
221023778606

IBAN  
EE932200221023778606

SWIFT code  
HABAEE2X

— Luminor Bank  
Liivalaia  
4510145 Tallinn

account No.  
17001577198

IBAN  
EE701700017001577198

SWIFT code  
RIKOEE22

— LHV Pank  
Tartu mnt 2  
10145 Tallinn

account No.  
771003813400

IBAN  
EE777700771003813400

SWIFT code  
LHVBEE22

The fees are deemed to be paid upon receipt of a document by the Office
certifying payment of the prescribed amount. The payment methods apply in
respect of all PCT roles.

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a national patent:

An invention being the subject of a published international patent application
designating Estonia shall confer provisional protection as provided for in the
Patent Act (Section 18) as from the date on which the Estonian Patent Office
publishes the translation into the Estonian language of the international
patent application furnished by the applicant in accordance with Section 33(1)
of the Patent Act or, if the applicant seeks an earlier date, from the date on
which a translation of the claims of the published international patent
application into the Estonian language has been communicated by the applicant
to the person using the invention in Estonia, or as from the date on which the
said translation has been made available to the public by the Office, where
the translation was communicated to the Office and the fee prescribed for the
publication of the translation was paid.

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a European patent:

(1) International application published in one of the EPO official languages:
an invention being the subject of a published European patent application
designating Estonia shall confer the same provisional protection as provided
for in the Patent Act (Section 18) as from the date on which a translation of
the claims of the published European patent application into the Estonian
language has been communicated by the applicant to the person using the
invention in Estonia, or as from the date on which the said translation has
been made available to the public by the Estonian Patent Office, where the
translation was communicated to the Office and the fee prescribed for the
publication of the translation was paid.

(2) International application published in a language which is not an EPO
official language: the protection referred to in (1) does not become effective
until the EPO publishes the international application supplied to it in one of
its languages.

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

For national protection

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If the data concerning the inventor are missing at the
expiration of the time limit under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will
invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within the time limit
fixed in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

No

For a European patent

Refer to [Annex B(EP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=ep&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Estonia

Language in which international applications may be filed:

English,

German

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Same language as the international application (English or German)

Language in which the request may be filed:

English,

German

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

3

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notifications by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 30 April 2015, pages 71 _et seq._ and 22 September 2022,
page 255.

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

Color illustrations are not allowed. The use of shaded illustrations is
permitted if it helps to better understand the illustrations and is not too
extensive to allow readability. Photos must be presented in black and white
and, as a rule, only as a complement to graphic materials. The photos must be
distinguishable and sufficiently contrasted with the photographs to allow
high-quality copies.

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

120 EUR

International filing fee:

1,381 EUR

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

16 EUR

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

208 EUR

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

311 EUR

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EP)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

16 EUR

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

None

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Estonia  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any registered Estonian patent attorney resident in Estonia

Waiver of power of attorney:

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Refer to the Office

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Refer to the Office

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(3): 31 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes, the Office permits reinstatement of rights under the "due care"
criterion.

Fee for reinstatement (reestablishment of rights)

32 EUR

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Where the basic fee has been paid within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the translation may be filed within two months from the
expiration of that time limit, provided that the additional fee for late
furnishing of the translation has been paid within those two months

Estonian

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Where the basic fee has been paid within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the translation may be filed within two months from the
expiration of that time limit, provided that the additional fee for late
furnishing of the translation has been paid within those two months

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

Color illustrations are not allowed. The use of shaded illustrations is
permitted if it helps to better understand the illustrations and is not too
extensive to allow readability. Photos must be presented in black and white
and, as a rule, only as a complement to graphic materials. The photos must be
distinguishable and sufficiently contrasted with the photographs to allow
high-quality copies.

National fees:

The amount in parentheses is applicable where all applicants are natural
persons

Where the basic fee has been paid within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the translation may be filed within two months from the
expiration of that time limit, provided that the additional fee for late
furnishing of the translation has been paid within those two months

Patents

Basic fee 1

225 EUR

(56 EUR)

Claim fee for each claim in excess of 10 2

13 EUR

Additional fee for late furnishing of translation or copy

32 EUR

Annual fees for the first three years 3

116 EUR

Utility models

Filing fee

105 EUR

(26 EUR)

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

The filing fee is reduced where all applicants are natural persons

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Declaration concerning the right of the applicant to apply for a patent where
the applicant is not an inventor or where the applicant is a legal entity 4

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in Estonia

Who can act as agent?

Any registered Estonian patent attorney resident in Estonia

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

EE.01 TRANSLATION (LATE FURNISHING OF)

EPL Sec. 33(3)  
If the translation of the international application has not been furnished by
the applicant within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)
but the national fee indicated in the Summary has been paid within that time
limit, the translation can still be furnished within a further period of two
months, provided that the additional fee for late furnishing of the
translation, indicated in Annex EE.I, has been paid within those two months.

EE.02 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003). If the translation furnished to
the Office contains only the description, the Office will invite the applicant
to furnish the missing part and will excuse the late furnishing provided that
the scope of the disclosure is not broadened thereby.

EE.03 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex EE.I.

EE.04 EXAMINATION

The Office examines national patent applications as to substance. No request
is necessary and no special fee is required.

EE.05 DECLARATION CONCERNING THE RIGHT OF THE APPLICANT TO APPLY FOR A PATENT

EPL Sec. 12  
For details, refer to the model of such declaration in Annex EE.II.
Legalization is not required.

EE.06 REPRESENTATION

EPL Sec. 131(2),  PAA Sec. 3(13)  
A person whose residence or seat is not located in Estonia shall authorize an
Estonian patent attorney to represent the person. It is presumed that the
patent attorney has the right of representation. Only in case of doubt about
the existence of the right of representation, the Office is entitled to
request the patent attorney to submit a power of attorney. A model of a power
of attorney is given in Annex EE.III.

EE.07 FEE FOR GRANT

EPL Sec. 35(6)  
A fee for grant must be paid within three months from the decision to grant
the patent. Where the applicant fails to pay within that time limit, the
application shall be deemed to be withdrawn.

EE.08 ANNUAL FEES

EPL Sec. 33(1),  EPL Sec. 42  
Annual fees must be paid for each year following the international filing
date. For the due date of annual fees for the first three years, refer to the
Summary. Payment of the subsequent annual fees must be made before the
expiration of the month containing the anniversary of the international filing
date. Payment can still be made, together with a 10% surcharge for late
payment, before the expiration of the sixth month after the month containing
the anniversary of the international filing date. The amounts of the annual
fees are indicated in Annex EE.I. It is to be noted that, where the time limit
under PCT Article 22 or 39(1) applies, annual fees can be paid without
surcharge within two months after performing the acts for entering the
national phase.

EE.09 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  EPL Sec. 25,  EPL Sec. 25(5)  
The applicant may make amendments to the claims, description, drawings, and
other illustrative material up to the decision to grant a patent, provided
that the scope of the subject matter of the application is not broadened
thereby. Amendments may be additionally made after the decision to grant a
patent within two months from the date of the decision and subject to the
payment of the fee indicated in Annex EE.I.

EE.10 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2),  Rule 82 _bis_  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.

EE.11

EPL Sec. 29(2),  EPL Sec. (3),  EPL Sec. 33(11),  
Reestablishment of rights may be requested where the applicant, in spite of
all due care reasonable required, was unable to observe a time limit during
the international phase or before the Office, default of which is prejudicial
to his rights. A request for reestablishment must be presented in writing
within two months after the removal of the cause of the failure to perform the
action but not later than one year from the expiration of the time limit which
has not been observed. Within the said two months, the omitted action must be
completed, the fee for reestablishment of rights (refer to Annex EE.I) must be
paid and the request must state the grounds on which it is based and set out
the facts on which it relies.

EE.12 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51,  EPL Sec. 30,  EPL Sec. 52  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. If, upon review under PCT Article 25, the Office denies an
error or omission on the part of the receiving Office or the International
Bureau, an appeal against this decision may be lodged within two months from
the date of the decision, with the Board of Appeals or in court. Within the
same two month time limit, a fee for appeal must be paid, the amount of which
is indicated in Annex EE.I.

EE.13 UTILITY MODEL

PCT Art. 4(3),  PCT Art. 43,  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1,  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1(a),
PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1(b),  PCT Rule 76.5  
If the applicant wishes to obtain utility model registration on the basis of
an international application

— instead of a patent, or

— in addition to a patent,

for international applications filed before 1 January 2004, this must have
been indicated in the international application (in Box No. V of the request)
when filed; for international applications filed on or after 1 January 2004,
since the request form no longer provides for the furnishing of such an
indication, the applicant, when performing the acts referred to in Article 22
or 39, shall so indicate to the Office. The term of a utility model
certificate is generally four years from the date of filing the application,
though the term may be extended (upon request and payment of a fee) initially
for four years and later for two more years.

EE.14

Whether the international application is for a utility model instead of a
patent, or for both a utility model and a patent, the application shall
conform to the following requirements, which differ somewhat from those of
patents:

EUL Sec. 6(1),  EUL Sec. 8  
(a) the application may not be in respect of more than one invention; utility
model protection does not cover biotechnological inventions;

EUL Sec. 9(3)  
(b) the application may contain only one independent claim and a plurality of
dependent claims;

PCT Art. 7(2)(ii),  PCT Rule 7.2  
(c) if the application does not contain drawings, the Office will invite the
applicant to furnish drawings within a specified period of time;

EUL Sec. 18(2),  EUL Sec. 34(2)  
(d) a registration fee must be paid. The application will not be processed
until the fee has been paid. A renewal fee is payable for extension of the
term of protection from four to eight and from eight to 10 years. The fee for
extending the term of the certificate should be paid within six months before
the expiration of the previous term, although it may be paid (with a 10%
surcharge) up to six months after the expiration of the previous term. The
amounts of the registration fee and the renewal fees are indicated in Annex
EE.I.

EE.15

If the international application is for both a utility model and a patent, the
applicant must pay both the registration fee for the utility model and the
national fee for a patent application. The power of attorney and declaration
concerning the right to apply for a utility model and patent (if any) should
be in duplicate for the utility model and the patent application.

EE.16 CONVERSION

EUL Sec. 19  
An international application for a patent may be converted into a utility
model application after the application complies with the requirements for a
patent application for entry into the national phase. The utility model
application shall be deemed as having been filed on the date the patent
application was filed. After the conversion, the patent application will be
deemed to have lapsed. The conversion is subject to payment of the utility
model registration fee indicated in Annex EE.I. Conversion cannot be
requested:

— after the expiration of 10 years from the international filing date;

— in respect of a refused, abandoned or lapsed patent application.

##  Annexes

Annex EE.I - Fees

The amount in parentheses is applicable where all applicants are natural
persons.

Patents

Basic fee

225 EUR

(56 EUR)

Claim fee for each claim in excess of 10

13 EUR

Additional fee for late furnishing of translation or copy

32 EUR

Fee for grant

96 EUR

Fee for making amendment after the decision to grant

96 EUR

Fee for reestablishment of rights

32 EUR

Appeal fee

159.77 EUR

Annual fees:

— for the 1st year

26 EUR

— for the 2nd year

26 EUR

— for the 3rd year

64 EUR

— for the 4th year

77 EUR

— for the 5th year

96 EUR

— for the 6th year

120 EUR

— for the 7th year

135 EUR

— for the 8th year

155 EUR

— for the 9th year

180 EUR

— for the 10th year

205 EUR

— for the 11th year

245 EUR

— for the 12th year

285 EUR

— for the 13th year

320 EUR

— for the 14th year

360 EUR

— for the 15th year

405 EUR

— for the 16th year

450 EUR

— for the 17th year

495 EUR

— for the 18th year

540 EUR

— for the 19th year

585 EUR

— for the 20th year

630 EUR

Surcharge for late payment of annual fees

10% of the applicable annual fee

Fee for restoration of the right of priority

None

Utility models

Filing fee

105 EUR

(26 EUR)

First renewal fee (becomes due on the last day of the month containing the 4th
anniversary of the filing date)

195 EUR

Second renewal fee (becomes due on the last day of the month containing the
8th anniversary of the filing date)

260 EUR

How can payment of fees be effected?

Payment of fees must be effected in euros. All payments must indicate the
national application number (however, if that number is not yet known, the
international application number may be used), the name of the applicant and
the category of the fee being paid, as well as the mandatory Office reference
2900082362

Payment may be effected into one of the four accounts of the
Rahandusministeerium [Ministry of Finance] at:

— SEB Pank  
Tornimäe 2  
15010 Tallinn

account No.  
10220034796011

IBAN  
EE891010220034796011

SWIFT code  
EEUHEE2X

— Swedbank  
Liivalaia 8  
15040 Tallinn

account No.  
221023778606

IBAN  
EE932200221023778606

SWIFT code  
HABAEE2X

— Luminor Bank  
Liivalaia  
4510145 Tallinn

account No.  
17001577198

IBAN  
EE701700017001577198

SWIFT code  
RIKOEE22

— LHV Pank  
Tartu mnt 2  
10145 Tallinn

account No.  
771003813400

IBAN  
EE777700771003813400

SWIFT code  
LHVBEE22

The fees are deemed to be paid upon receipt of a document by the Office
certifying payment of the prescribed amount

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex EE.II -
Declaration](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_ee.pdf)

[Annex EE.III - Power of
attorney](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_ee.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a Must be paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or
39(1).  
2 ^ a If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.  
3 ^ a These fees are due on the last day of the month containing the second
anniversary (24 months) of the international filing date; where PCT Article
39(1) applies, they are payable within two months after performing the acts
for entering the national phase, unless the 24-month time limit has not yet
expired.  
4 ^ a This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  

Change(s) as of 11 April 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental Organization

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

Payment of fees must be effected in euros. All payments must indicate the
national application number (however, if that number is not yet known, the
international application number may be used), the name of the applicant and
the category of the fee being paid, as well as the mandatory Office reference
2900082362

Payment may be effected into one of the four accounts of the
Rahandusministeerium [Ministry of Finance] at:

— SEB Pank  
Tornimäe 2  
15010 Tallinn

account No.  
10220034796011

IBAN  
EE891010220034796011

SWIFT code  
EEUHEE2X

— Swedbank  
Liivalaia 8  
15040 Tallinn

account No.  
221023778606

IBAN  
EE932200221023778606

SWIFT code  
HABAEE2X

— Luminor Bank  
Liivalaia  
4510145 Tallinn

account No.  
17001577198

IBAN  
EE701700017001577198

SWIFT code  
RIKOEE22

— LHV Pank  
Tartu mnt 2  
10145 Tallinn

account No.  
771003813400

IBAN  
EE777700771003813400

SWIFT code  
LHVBEE22

The fees are deemed to be paid upon receipt of a document by the Office
certifying payment of the prescribed amount. The payment methods apply in
respect of all PCT roles.

  

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

  

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

  

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

Color illustrations are not allowed. The use of shaded illustrations is
permitted if it helps to better understand the illustrations and is not too
extensive to allow readability. Photos must be presented in black and white
and, as a rule, only as a complement to graphic materials. The photos must be
distinguishable and sufficiently contrasted with the photographs to allow
high-quality copies.

  

  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes, the Office permits reinstatement of rights under the "due care"
criterion.

Fee for reinstatement (reestablishment of rights)

32 EUR

  

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

Color illustrations are not allowed. The use of shaded illustrations is
permitted if it helps to better understand the illustrations and is not too
extensive to allow readability. Photos must be presented in black and white
and, as a rule, only as a complement to graphic materials. The photos must be
distinguishable and sufficiently contrasted with the photographs to allow
high-quality copies.

  

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

  

Close

Current version applicable from 11 Apr 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

