####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * ISA
  * IPEA
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
EG - Useful informationEG - International PhaseEG - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationEG - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeEG - Annex D - International Searching AuthorityEG - Annex E -
International Preliminary Examining AuthorityEG - National PhaseEG - Summary
of requirements for entry into the national phaseEG - The procedure in the
national PhaseEG - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide EG - Egypt  
Egyptian Patent Office

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **1 March 2024**

(published on 1 February 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
RO: RO fees  
ISA: ISA fees  
IPEA: IPEA fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Oct 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 1 Jan 2024, Current Version

**Advance notice:** The Office has notified the IB of changes entering into
force soon; you can already consult the changes that will be effective from 1
Jun 2024.  

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for EG - Egyptian Patent Office)).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Egyptian Patent Office

Law: Egyptian Law No. 82 of 2002 on the Protection of Intellectual Property
Rights

Regulations: Implementing Regulations of Law No. 82 of 2002 on the Protection
of Intellectual Property Rights

List of currencies used in this document:

CHF (Swiss franc), EGP (Egyptian pound), EUR (Euro), USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=EG).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Friday and Saturday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Egypt

Two-letter code:

[EG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EG&doc-lang=EN)

Egypt - Egyptian Patent Office

Name of Office:

Egyptian Patent Office

Location:

101 Kasr Al Ainy St.  
Cairo  
Egypt

Mailing address:

P.O. Box 11516  
Cairo  
Egypt

Telephone:

(202) 792 22 03  
(202) 792 12 72  
(202) 792 12 92  
(202) 792 12 74

E-mail:

patinfo@egypo.gov.eg

Website:

<http://www.egypo.gov.eg>

Facsimile:

(202) 279 21 273

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[EG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EG&doc-lang=EN)

Egypt - Egyptian Patent Office

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[EG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EG&doc-lang=EN)

Egypt - Egyptian Patent Office

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Patents

Utility models

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If not already complied with within the time limit
applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant
to comply with the requirement within a time limit of three months from the
date of the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Egypt

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3).

Arabic,

English

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

The Office has not specifically notified the International Bureau of the
language that it accepts under PCT Rule 12.1(d).

Same as above

Language in which the request may be filed:

Arabic,

English

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

3

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 21 September 2017, pages 132 _et seq._

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
If the receiving Office does not accept international applications in
electronic form in such format, the international application will be
transmitted to the International Bureau as receiving Office (PCT Rule
19.4(a)(ii-_bis_)).

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[EG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EG&doc-lang=EN)

Egypt - Egyptian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[EG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EG&doc-lang=EN)

Egypt - Egyptian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

1,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

2

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

142 USD

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

235 USD

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

352 USD

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(AT)  
Annex D(EG)  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(US)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

30 USD

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

individuals and research institutes

800 EGP

companies less than 10 employees

1,000 EGP

companies over 10 employees

1,500 EGP

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Egypt  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any patent attorney or patent agent registered before the Office

Waiver of power of attorney:

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

No

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

No

##  Annex D - International Searching Authority

International Searching Authority competent for the following Receiving
Offices:

[DJ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=DJ&doc-lang=EN)

Djibouti - Office of Industrial Property and Commerce of Djibouti (ODPIC)

,

[EG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EG&doc-lang=EN)

Egypt - Egyptian Patent Office

,

[IQ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IQ&doc-lang=EN)

Iraq - Iraqi Patent Office (IQPO)

,

[OM](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=OM&doc-lang=EN)

Oman - National Intellectual Property Office (Ministry of Commerce, Industry
and Investment Promotion) (Oman)

,

[QA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=QA&doc-lang=EN)

Qatar - Intellectual Property Department (Qatar)

,

[SA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SA&doc-lang=EN)

Saudi Arabia - Saudi Authority for Intellectual Property (SAIP)

,

[SD](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SD&doc-lang=EN)

Sudan - Registrar General of Intellectual Property Department (Sudan)

,

[SY](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SY&doc-lang=EN)

Syrian Arab Republic - Ministry of Internal Trade and Consumer Protection,
Directorate of Industrial and Commercial Property Protection (Syrian Arab
Republic)

Search fee (PCT Rule 16):

110 CHF

4,000 EGP

123 EUR

129 USD

This fee is payable to the receiving Office in the currency or one of the
currencies accepted by it.

This fee is reduced by 25% where the applicant, or, if there are two or more
applicants, each applicant is a natural person or a legal entity and is a
national of and resides in a State which is classified by the World Bank in
the group of countries of “low income”, “lower middle income” or “upper middle
income”

Additional search fee (PCT Rule 40.2):

4,000 EGP

This fee is payable to the International Searching Authority and only in
particular circumstances.

This fee is reduced by 25% where the applicant, or, if there are two or more
applicants, each applicant is a natural person or a legal entity and is a
national of and resides in a State which is classified by the World Bank in
the group of countries of “low income”, “lower middle income” or “upper middle
income”

Fee for copies of documents cited in the international search report (PCT Rule
44.3):

The applicant receives, together with the international search report, a copy
of each document cited in the report, free of charge

Additional copies may be ordered

per document 50 EGP

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.1 _ter_):

— for the first 30 pages

200 EGP

— for each additional page

plus 3 EGP

Protest fee (PCT Rule 40.2(e)):

1,600 EGP

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rule 13 _ter_.1(c)):

200 EGP

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the search fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded

Where the international application is withdrawn or is considered withdrawn,
under PCT Article 14(1), (3) or (4), before the start of the international
search:  
refund of 100%

Where the Authority benefits from an earlier search:  
refund of 50% upon request by the applicant

Languages accepted for international search:

For international applications filed with the receiving Office of, or acting
for, any member of the League of Arab States
(<http://www.leagueofarabstates.net/ar/Pages/default.aspx>)

Arabic

For international applications filed with any receiving Office other than the
receiving Office of, or acting for, any member of the League of Arab States
(<http://www.leagueofarabstates.net/ar/Pages/default.aspx>) and for
international applications filed with the receiving Office of, or acting for,
any member of the League of Arab States
(<http://www.leagueofarabstates.net/ar/Pages/default.aspx>)

English

Does the Authority accept informal comments on earlier search results where an
international application claims priority from an earlier application already
searched by this Authority?

Please refer to the Office

Types of physical media accepted for the furnishing of nucleotide and/or amino
acid sequence listings:

Diskette, CD-ROM, CD-R, DVD, DVD-R

Subject matter that will not be searched:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 39.1

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Not applicable

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Not applicable

##  Annex E - International Preliminary Examining Authority

International Preliminary Examining Authority competent for the following
Receiving Offices:

[DJ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=DJ&doc-lang=EN)

Djibouti - Office of Industrial Property and Commerce of Djibouti (ODPIC)

,

[EG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EG&doc-lang=EN)

Egypt - Egyptian Patent Office

,

[IQ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IQ&doc-lang=EN)

Iraq - Iraqi Patent Office (IQPO)

,

[OM](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=OM&doc-lang=EN)

Oman - National Intellectual Property Office (Ministry of Commerce, Industry
and Investment Promotion) (Oman)

,

[QA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=QA&doc-lang=EN)

Qatar - Intellectual Property Department (Qatar)

,

[SA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SA&doc-lang=EN)

Saudi Arabia - Saudi Authority for Intellectual Property (SAIP)

,

[SD](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SD&doc-lang=EN)

Sudan - Registrar General of Intellectual Property Department (Sudan)

,

[SY](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SY&doc-lang=EN)

Syrian Arab Republic - Ministry of Internal Trade and Consumer Protection,
Directorate of Industrial and Commercial Property Protection (Syrian Arab
Republic)

Preliminary examination fee (PCT Rule 58):

3,000 EGP

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority

Additional preliminary examination fee (PCT Rule 68.3):

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority and
only in particular circumstances

3,000 EGP

Handling fee (PCT Rule 57.1):

235 USD

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority

Fee for copies of documents cited in the international preliminary examination
report (PCT Rule 71.2):

How to obtain copies:

The applicant receives, together with the international preliminary
examination report, a copy of each additional document not cited in the
international search report, free of charge

Additional copies may be ordered

per document 50 EGP

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.2):

— for the first 30 pages

200 EGP

— for each additional page

plus 3 EGP

Protest fee (PCT Rule 68.3(e)):

1,600 EGP

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rule 13 _ter_.2):

200 EGP

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the preliminary examination fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded

In the cases provided for under PCT Rule 58.3:  
refund of 100%

If the international application or the demand is withdrawn before the start
of the international preliminary examination:  
refund of 100%

Languages accepted for international preliminary examination:

For international applications filed with the receiving Office of, or acting
for, any member of the League of Arab States:  
<http://www.lasportal.org/Pages/Welcome.aspx>

Arabic

For international applications filed with any receiving Office other than the
receiving Office of, or acting for, any member of the League of Arab States
and for international applications filed with the receiving Office of, or
acting for, any member of the League of Arab States:  
<http://www.lasportal.org/Pages/Welcome.aspx>

English

Subject matter that will not be examined:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 67.1

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Not applicable

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Not applicable

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Arabic

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Patents

Filing fee

150 EGP

filing by students 0 EGP

Annual fee for the 2nd year

20 EGP

filing by students 2 EGP

filing by individuals 10 EGP

Annual fee for the 3rd year

40 EGP

filing by students 4 EGP

filing by individuals 20 EGP

Examination fee

17,000 EGP

filing by students 0 EGP

Utility models

Filing fee

EGP 100

filing by students 0 EGP

Annual fee for the 2nd year

20 EGP

filing by students 2 EGP

filing by individuals 10 EGP

Annual fee for the 3rd year

40 EGP

filing by students 4 EGP

filing by individuals 20 EGP

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

Reductions of the national fee are indicated under “National fee” above.

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit of two months from the date of receipt of the
invitation

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application 3

Translation of the international application to be furnished in three copies 4

Document evidencing a change of name of the applicant if the change occurred
after the international filing date and has not been reflected in a
notification from the International Bureau (Form PCT/IB/306)

Instrument of assignment of the international application if the applicant has
changed after the international filing date

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in Egypt

Who can act as agent?

Any patent attorney or patent agent registered before the Office

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

EG.01 FORMS FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

The Office has available a special form for entering the national phase. This
form should preferably be used.

EG.02 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

PCT Art. 46  
Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

EG.03 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex EG.I.

EG.04 INVENTOR

Law Art. 6,  Law Art.,  Law Art. 7,  Law Art. 8  
The indication of the name and nationality of the inventor is required and
must be furnished, at the latest, at the time of entry into the national
phase. Where the invention is part of the activities of the public or private
establishment to which the inventor is attached, the employer shall have the
choice either to exploit the invention or to acquire the patent against a fair
compensation paid to the inventor, provided that the choice is made within
three months from the date of notifying the grant of the patent. In all cases,
the invention shall be attributed to the inventor.

EG.05 REQUEST FOR EXAMINATION

Law Art. 16  
No special form is needed to request substantive examination, but substantive
examination will not take place before full payment of the examination fee.
The Office shall examine the patent application and its accompanying documents
in order to ascertain that the invention is new, involves an inventive step,
is industrially applicable and is in conformity with the provisions of the
law.

EG.06 POWER OF ATTORNEY

Regulations Art. 52  
An agent must be appointed by means of a separate power of attorney. If the
applicant is not resident in Egypt, an Egyptian patent agent shall be
appointed to whom all notifications, documentation and submissions shall be
sent.

EG.07 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  Regulations Art. 19,  Regulations Art. 20,
Regulations Art. 21  
The Office may request the applicant by notification, by registered mail with
an acknowledgement of receipt, to amend or complete the application to comply
with the provisions of the Law and the Regulations. If the applicant fails to
comply within three months from the notification, the application will be
considered withdrawn. An appeal against the decision that the application has
been considered withdrawn may be filed within 30 days from the notification of
the decision before a special committee established to examine appeals against
decisions made by the Office. The applicant may amend or correct the
international application before the publication of acceptance of the
application according to the provisions of the law, provided the scope of the
subject matter is not thereby broadened.

EG.08 ANNUAL FEES

Law Art. 11,  Regulations Art. 34  
An annual fee shall be paid as of the second year until the expiration of the
patent protection period (refer to Annex EG.I). The Office shall notify the
person concerned 30 days before the due date for payment of the annual fee. If
the applicant fails to pay by the due date, a surcharge shall be imposed,
amounting to 7% of such fees. Failure to pay annual fees or surcharges for a
period of one year from the due date shall cause the rights conferred by
patents for inventions to lapse and the invention to fall into the public
domain.

EG.09 DECLARATION OF ORIGIN

Law Art. 13,  Regulations Art. 3.3  
Where the application relates to an invention involving plant or animal
biological material, traditional medicinal, agricultural, industrial or
handicraft knowledge, or cultural or environmental heritage, it shall be
accompanied by documentation proving that the inventor has accessed the source
from which the material was obtained in a legitimate manner according to the
provisions of national law.

EG.10 DEPOSIT OF BIOLOGICAL MATERIAL

Law Art. 13,  Regulations Art. 3.4  
Where the invention involves biological material, the applicant shall disclose
such biological material according to conventional scientific rules, including
all necessary information for the identification of the nature,
characteristics and uses of such biological material, shall deposit a live
culture thereof with a laboratory authorized by decision of the competent
minister for scientific research affairs, and shall furnish a certificate to
the effect that such deposit was made.

EG.11 INFORMATION ON EARLIER APPLICATIONS

Law Art. 13,  Regulations Art. 3.1  
The applicant shall, in all cases, provide full data and information on any
applications relating to the same invention or its subject matter that he
previously filed abroad, including any decisions concerning the status of such
applications.

EG.12 SAMPLES

Regulations Art. 14,  Regulations Art. 15,  Regulations Art. 16,  Regulations
Art. 17  
Depending on the kind of invention, the Office may request that the applicant
furnish samples.

EG.13 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase.

EG.14 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2)  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.

EG.15 APPEALS

Law Art. 36,  Law Art. 37  
A committee established by a decision of the competent minister is empowered
to examine appeals against decisions made by the Office in the application of
the provisions of the Law. The decision of the committee may be subject to an
appeal by the Office or any interested party before the Administrative
Tribunal within 60 days from the date of notification of the decision.

EG.16 TRIBUNAL

Law Art. 27  
The Administrative Tribunal shall be competent to consider claims relating to
patent decisions.

EG.17 UTILITY MODEL

Law Art. 29,  Law Art. 30,  Law Art. 31  
The applicant chooses, upon entry into the national phase, whether to apply
for a utility model or for a patent. The choice is made by checking the
appropriate box on the national phase entry form.

EG.18 CONVERSION

Law Art. 29  
If the Office finds that an invention is novel but lacks inventive step, it
must ask the applicant whether the latter wishes to convert the application
for a patent to one for a utility model. If the Office finds that an
application for a utility model possesses inventive step, it may convert the
application to one for a patent.

##  Annexes

Annex EG.I - Fees

Filing fee for a patent application

Students are exempted from paying this fee.

150 EGP

Filing fee for a utility model

Students are exempted from paying this fee.

100 EGP

Substantive examination fee

Students are exempted from paying this fee.

17,000 EGP

Access to or obtaining a true copy of a patent application

100 EGP

Appeal fee

250 EGP

Request for objecting the grant of a patent.

500 EGP

Patents

The annual fee shall be reduced to 10% for students and it shall be reduced to
50% for individuals or establishments with a maximum staff of 10 persons.

Annual fees:

A surcharge of 7% shall be due for each year of delay.

— for the 2nd year

20 EGP

— for the 3rd year

40 EGP

— for the 4th year

80 EGP

— for the 5th year

100 EGP

— for the 6th year

150 EGP

— for the 7th year

200 EGP

— for the 8th year

250 EGP

— for the 9th year

300 EGP

— for the 10th year

350 EGP

— for the 11th year

400 EGP

— for the 12th year.

500 EGP

— for the 13th year

600 EGP

— for the 14th year

700 EGP

— for the 15th year

800 EGP

— for the 16th year

900 EGP

— from the 17th to the 20th year

per year 1,000 EGP

Utility models

The annual fee shall be reduced to 10% for students and it shall be reduced to
50% for individuals or establishments with a maximum staff of 10 persons.

Annual fees:

A surcharge of 7% shall be due for each year of delay.

— for the 2nd year

20 EGP

— for the 3rd year

40 EGP

— for the 4th year

80 EGP

— for the 5th year

100 EGP

— for the 6th year

150 EGP

— for the 7th year

200 EGP

— for the 8th year

250 EGP

Fee for restoration of the right of priority:

— individuals and research institutes

800 EGP

— companies with less than 10 employees

1,000 EGP

— companies with over 10 employees

1,500 EGP

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of fees must be effected in Egyptian pounds in cash or by check

Forms

Please refer to the Office.

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office or by the Austrian Patent Office.  
2 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office.  
3 ^ a This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  
4 ^ a Must be furnished within six months from the date of the invitation by
the Office.  

Change(s) as of 1 March 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

235 USD

  

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

352 USD

  

  
Annex D - International Searching Authority

Search fee (PCT Rule 16):

110 CHF

4,000 EGP

123 EUR

129 USD

This fee is payable to the receiving Office in the currency or one of the
currencies accepted by it.

This fee is reduced by 25% where the applicant, or, if there are two or more
applicants, each applicant is a natural person or a legal entity and is a
national of and resides in a State which is classified by the World Bank in
the group of countries of “low income”, “lower middle income” or “upper middle
income”

  

  
Annex E - International Preliminary Examining Authority

Handling fee (PCT Rule 57.1):

235 USD

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority

  

Close

Current version applicable from 1 Mar 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

