####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * ISA
  * IPEA
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
ES - Useful informationES - International PhaseES - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationES - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeES - Annex D - International Searching AuthorityES - Annex E -
International Preliminary Examining AuthorityES - Annex L - Deposits of
Microorganisms and Other Biological MaterialES - National PhaseES - Summary of
requirements for entry into the national phaseES - The procedure in the
national PhaseES - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide ES - Spain  
Spanish Patent and Trademark Office

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **18 April 2024**

(published on 19 April 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
GENERAL INFO: Contact details  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Jan 2024, 1 Apr 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for ES - Spanish Patent and Trademark Office)).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Spanish Patent and Trademark Office

SPL: Law No. 24/2015 of 24 July 2015 on Patents

SRD: Royal Decree 316/2017 of 31 March 2017

List of currencies used in this document:

CHF (Swiss franc), EUR (Euro), USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=ES).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Rule 20.8(a-_bis_), Rule 20.8(b-_bis_)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).  
PCT Rule 20.8(a-_bis_), The Offices (in their capacity as receiving Offices)
of the States listed in this table have notified the International Bureau (IB)
that new PCT Rules 20.5 _bis_(a)(ii) and 20.5 _bis_(d), are not compatible
and/or cannot be considered to be compatible with the national law applied by
the Office, or are deemed to have notified the IB of this incompatibility on
the basis of a notification made under PCT Rule 20.8(a) that remains in
effect.  
PCT Rule 20.8(b-_bis_), The Offices (in their capacity as designated Offices)
of the States listed in this table have notified the International Bureau (IB)
that PCT Rules 20.5 _bis_(a)(ii) and 20.5 _bis_(d), are not compatible and/or
cannot be considered to be compatible with the national law applied by the
Office, or are deemed to have notified the IB of this incompatibility on the
basis of a notification made under PCT Rule 20.8(b) that remains in effect.

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Spain

Two-letter code:

[ES](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ES&doc-lang=EN)

Spain - Spanish Patent and Trademark Office

Name of Office:

Spanish Patent and Trademark Office

Location:

Paseo de la Castellana 75  
28046 Madrid  
Spain

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(34) 910 780 780

E-mail:

informacion@oepm.es

Website:

<https://www.oepm.es>

Facsimile:

None

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

Yes

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

Yes, the Office is prepared to allow applicants to make international and
national applications available to the WIPO DAS

For further details on how to request this Office to make applications
available to DAS, refer to:  
<https://www.oepm.es/es/invenciones/gestion-de-invenciones/otros-
tramites/Servicio-de-acceso-digital-de-la-OMPI-DAS/>

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[ES](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ES&doc-lang=EN)

Spain - Spanish Patent and Trademark Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Law No. 24/2015 of July 24, 2015, on Patents, Art. 163

Unless priority of an earlier application filed at the Spanish Patent and
Trademark Office is claimed

Yes

Filing restrictions apply to:

Inventions made in Spain

Applications by residents

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: ES

European patent: EP

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National: Patents, utility models

European: Patents

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a national patent:

After a patent has been granted, the applicant is entitled to reasonable
compensation for the period following the international publication of the
international application. For that purpose, and if the international
publication has not been effected in Spanish, the applicant must submit to the
Office a translation of the international application into Spanish. The
provisional protection applies as from the date of publication of the
international application in Spanish by the Office.

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a European patent:

After the international publication (if in Spanish) or, where that publication
was in a language other than Spanish, after the publication by the Office of a
translation into Spanish of the claims of the European patent application
submitted by the applicant in view of provisional protection and accompanied
by a special fee, compensation reasonable in the circumstances may be
requested. The translation of the claims into Spanish cannot be filed before
the international application has entered the European regional phase and the
mention of the international publication has been published in the European
Patent Bulletin. If the applicant does not reside in Spain or in a country of
the European Union, the translation must be either prepared by a patent
attorney entitled to practice before the Office, or certified by a sworn
translator appointed by the Ministry of External Affairs of Spain. In
addition, persons who declare to have linguistic and technical knowledge in
accordance with the Ministerial Order ETU/320/2018 of March 26, 2018 may also
prepare the translation

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

For national protection

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

The indication of the address of the inventor is not required by the Office.
The name may be indicated in the request or may be furnished later. If not
already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or
39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement
within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

For a European patent

Refer to [Annex B(EP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=ep&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Spain

Language in which international applications may be filed:

Depending on the applicant’s choice of competent International Searching
Authority, a translation into a corresponding language (refer to Annex D) may
have to be furnished by the applicant (PCT Rule 12.3)

Spanish

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Spanish,

or English and Spanish

Language in which the request may be filed:

Spanish

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via Front Office (OEPMSei) or EPO
online filing software

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”)

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C
of the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 2 February 2023, pages 44 _et seq._ and 17 August 2023,
pages 159 _et seq._

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[ES](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ES&doc-lang=EN)

Spain - Spanish Patent and Trademark Office

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[ES](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ES&doc-lang=EN)

Spain - Spanish Patent and Trademark Office

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

75.75 EUR

International filing fee:

1,381 EUR

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

16 EUR

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

208 EUR

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

311 EUR

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(ES)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

30.28 EUR

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

Online 91.35 EUR

On paper 107.46 EUR

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Spain or in another country of the European
Union  
Yes, if the applicant resides in a country other than a country of the
European Union

Who can act as agent?

Any patent attorney whose name appears on a list maintained by the Office

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

In case of reasonable doubt regarding the agent’s entitlement to act; and upon
appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent or a common
representative who was not indicated in the request form at the time of
filing.

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

In case of reasonable doubt regarding the agent’s entitlement to act; and upon
appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent or a common
representative who was not indicated in the request form at the time of
filing.

##  Annex D - International Searching Authority

International Searching Authority competent for the following Receiving
Offices:

[CL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CL&doc-lang=EN)

Chile - National Institute of Industrial Property (Chile)

,

[CO](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CO&doc-lang=EN)

Colombia - Superintendence of Industry and Commerce (Colombia)

,

[CR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CR&doc-lang=EN)

Costa Rica - Registry of Intellectual Property (Costa Rica)

,

[CU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CU&doc-lang=EN)

Cuba - Cuban Industrial Property Office

,

[DO](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=DO&doc-lang=EN)

Dominican Republic - National Office of Industrial Property (Dominican
Republic)

,

[EC](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EC&doc-lang=EN)

Ecuador - National Service of Intellectual Rights (SENADI) (Ecuador)

,

[ES](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ES&doc-lang=EN)

Spain - Spanish Patent and Trademark Office

,

[HN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=HN&doc-lang=EN)

Honduras - Directorate General of Intellectual Property (Honduras)

,

[MX](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MX&doc-lang=EN)

Mexico - Mexican Institute of Industrial Property

,

[NI](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=NI&doc-lang=EN)

Nicaragua - Registry of Intellectual Property (Nicaragua)

,

[PA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PA&doc-lang=EN)

Panama - Directorate General of the Industrial Property Registry (DIGERPI)
(Panama)

,

[PE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PE&doc-lang=EN)

Peru - National Institute for the Defense of Competition and Intellectual
Property Protection (Peru)

,

[SV](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SV&doc-lang=EN)

El Salvador - National Center of Registries (CNR) (El Salvador)

Search fee (PCT Rule 16):

1,751 CHF

1,845 EUR

1,989 USD

This fee is payable to the receiving Office in the currency or one of the
currencies accepted by it. The fee is reduced by 75% where the applicant or,
if there are two or more applicants, each applicant is a natural person or a
legal entity and is a national of and resides in a State not party to the
European Patent Convention and which is classified by the World Bank in the
group of countries of “low income”, “lower middle income” or “upper middle
income”, refer to <http://www.wipo.int/pct/en/fees/oepm_fee_reduction.html>

Additional search fee (PCT Rule 40.2):

1,845 EUR

This fee is payable to the International Searching Authority and only in
particular circumstances. The fee is reduced by 75% where the applicant or, if
there are two or more applicants, each applicant is a natural person or a
legal entity and is a national of and resides in a State not party to the
European Patent Convention and which is classified by the World Bank in the
group of countries of “low income”, “lower middle income” or “upper middle
income”, refer to <http://www.wipo.int/pct/en/fees/oepm_fee_reduction.html>

Fee for copies of documents cited in the international search report (PCT Rule
44.3):

per national document 4.69 EUR

per foreign document 4.69 EUR

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.1 _ter_):

per page 0 .23 EUR

Protest fee (PCT Rule 40.2(e)):

None

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rule 13 _ter_.1(c)):

None

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the search fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded, upon
request by the applicant

Where the international application is withdrawn or is considered withdrawn,
under PCT Article 14(1), (3) or (4), before the start of the international
search:  
refund of 100%

Where the Authority benefits from an earlier search already made by the
Authority on an application whose priority is claimed for the international
application, depending upon the extent to which the Authority benefits from
that earlier search:  
refund of 100% or 50%

Where the Authority benefits from an earlier search already made by an
Authority of a State party to the EPC:  
refund of 75%

Where the Authority benefits from an earlier search already made by an
Authority of a State not party to the EPC:  
refund of 25%

Languages accepted for international search:

English,

Spanish

Does the Authority accept informal comments on earlier search results where an
international application claims priority from an earlier application already
searched by this Authority?

Yes The applicant may submit informal comments to overcome objections raised
in the search report and written opinion for the priority application. At the
Spanish Patent and Trademark Office this service is called “PCT Direct”.
Informal comments should be sent to the receiving Office together with the
international application in the form of a separate letter entitled “PCT
Direct/informal comments” (“ _PCT Directo/comentarios informales_ ”). PCT
Direct submissions are published on PATENTSCOPE.

Types of physical media accepted for the furnishing of nucleotide and/or amino
acid sequence listings:

None. Physical media are not accepted. Sequence listings must be filed in
electronic form (refer to Administrative Instructions under the PCT, Annex C)

Subject matter that will not be searched:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 39.1 with the
exception of any subject matter searched under the patent grant procedure in
accordance with the provisions of Spanish patent law No. 24/2015 of 24 July
2015

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

In case of reasonable doubt regarding the agent’s entitlement to act; and upon
appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent or a common
representative who was not indicated in the request form at the time of
filing.

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

In case of reasonable doubt regarding the agent’s entitlement to act; and upon
appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent or a common
representative who was not indicated in the request form at the time of
filing.

##  Annex E - International Preliminary Examining Authority

International Preliminary Examining Authority competent for the following
Receiving Offices:

[CL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CL&doc-lang=EN)

Chile - National Institute of Industrial Property (Chile)

,

[CO](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CO&doc-lang=EN)

Colombia - Superintendence of Industry and Commerce (Colombia)

,

[CR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CR&doc-lang=EN)

Costa Rica - Registry of Intellectual Property (Costa Rica)

,

[CU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CU&doc-lang=EN)

Cuba - Cuban Industrial Property Office

,

[DO](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=DO&doc-lang=EN)

Dominican Republic - National Office of Industrial Property (Dominican
Republic)

,

[EC](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EC&doc-lang=EN)

Ecuador - National Service of Intellectual Rights (SENADI) (Ecuador)

,

[ES](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ES&doc-lang=EN)

Spain - Spanish Patent and Trademark Office

,

[HN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=HN&doc-lang=EN)

Honduras - Directorate General of Intellectual Property (Honduras)

,

[MX](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MX&doc-lang=EN)

Mexico - Mexican Institute of Industrial Property

,

[NI](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=NI&doc-lang=EN)

Nicaragua - Registry of Intellectual Property (Nicaragua)

,

[PA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PA&doc-lang=EN)

Panama - Directorate General of the Industrial Property Registry (DIGERPI)
(Panama)

,

[PE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PE&doc-lang=EN)

Peru - National Institute for the Defense of Competition and Intellectual
Property Protection (Peru)

,

[SV](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SV&doc-lang=EN)

El Salvador - National Center of Registries (CNR) (El Salvador)

Preliminary examination fee (PCT Rule 58):

595.37 EUR

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority. The
fee is reduced by 75% where the applicant or, if there are two or more
applicants, each applicant is a natural person or a legal entity and is a
national of and resides in a State not party to the European Patent Convention
and which is classified by the World Bank in the group of countries of “low
income”, “lower middle income” or “upper middle income”, refer to
<http://www.wipo.int/pct/en/fees/oepm_fee_reduction.html>

Additional preliminary examination fee (PCT Rule 68.3):

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority and
only in particular circumstances.

595.37 EUR

Handling fee (PCT Rule 57.1):

208 EUR

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority. It
is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee for copies of documents cited in the international preliminary examination
report (PCT Rule 71.2):

per national document 4.69 EUR

per foreign document 4.69 EUR

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.2):

per page 0.23 EUR

Protest fee (PCT Rule 68.3(e)):

None

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rule 13 _ter_.2):

None

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the preliminary examination fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded, upon
request by the applicant

In the cases provided for under PCT Rule 58.3:  
refund of 100%

If the international application or the demand is withdrawn before the start
of the international preliminary examination:  
refund of 100%

Languages accepted for international preliminary examination:

English,

Spanish

Subject matter that will not be examined:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 67.1 with the
exception of any subject matter examined under the patent grant procedure in
accordance with the provisions of Spanish patent law No. 24/2015 of 24 July
2015

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

In case of reasonable doubt regarding the agent’s entitlement to act; and upon
appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent or a common
representative who was not indicated in the request form at the time of filing

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

In case of reasonable doubt regarding the agent’s entitlement to act; and upon
appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent or a common
representative who was not indicated in the request form at the time of filing

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

Where applicant requests publication earlier than 16 months from the priority
date, two months from notification of the Office

— any additional indications:

At the time of filing (as part of the application)

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, relevant information on the
characteristics of the biological material

Additional information

For the purposes of patent procedure before the Spanish Patent and Trademark
Office a deposit is required not later than at the date of filing the
international application with any legally recognized institution and, in any
case, with any depositary institution having acquired the status of
international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on the
International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms (Article 25.2.a)
SPL).

If the applicant wishes that, until the publication of the mention of the
grant of a Spanish patent or for 20 years from the date of filing if the
application is refused or withdrawn, the biological material shall be made
available as provided in Article 45 SPL only by the issue of a sample to an
independent expert, the applicant must, by a written statement, inform the
International Bureau accordingly before completion of technical preparations
for publication of the international application. Such statement must be
separate from the description and claims of the international application and
must preferably be made on Form PCT/RO/134, referred to in Section 209 of the
Administrative Instructions under the PCT.

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Shall be furnished within 30 months from the priority date. If not furnished
within that time limit, the Office will invite the applicant to comply with
the requirement within two months from the date of the invitation

Spanish

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Shall be furnished within 30 months from the priority date. If not furnished
within that time limit, the Office will invite the applicant to comply with
the requirement within two months from the date of the invitation

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

Patents or utility models

Filing fee

Online 87.03 EUR

On paper 102.39 EUR

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

Fee reductions are available to Spanish public universities and entrepreneurs.
For further information refer to Invention fees:  
<https://www.oepm.es/en/tasas-y-precios-publicos/tasas-de-invenciones/>

Refund of fees are available if the ISA was SPTO. For more information refer
to the Instruction on the refund of search report fee and substantive
examination fee.

Instruction on the refund of search report fee and substantive examination
fee, refer to:  
<https://www.oepm.es/export/sites/portal/comun/documentos_relacionados/PDF/2019_03_06_Reembolso_Tasas_IET_Resolucion.pdf>

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Name of the inventor if it has not been furnished in the “Request” part of the
international application 1

Instrument of assignment of the priority right where the applicants are not
identical 1 2

Instrument of assignment of the international application if the applicant has
changed after the international filing date

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in Spain or in
another country of the European Union

Who can act as agent?

Any patent attorney whose name appears on a list maintained by the Office

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

ES.01 FORM FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

The Office has available a form for entering the national phase (refer to
Annex ES.II) and strongly recommends the use of this form.

ES.02 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

ES.03 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

SPL Art. 184  
The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex ES.I.

ES.04 APPOINTMENT OF AN AGENT

SPL Art. 175,  SRD Art. 108  
An agent must be appointed by filing a power of attorney if the applicant is
not resident in Spain or in a country of the European Union. However, the
submission of a separate power of attorney or a copy of a general power of
attorney is not required, except in case of reasonable doubt regarding the
agent’s entitlement to act; upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted
by, an agent who was not indicated in the request form at the time of filing;
or when filing an assignment, a change in the name of the applicant or the
proprietor of the patent, a license, a withdrawal, a limitation or revocation
or an opposition to a patent or to a utility model. A model of power of
attorney is given in Annex ES.III.

ES.05 ANNUAL FEES

SPL Art. 184,  SPL Art. 185  
After a patent has been granted, a fee must be paid for maintaining the patent
in force. Payment must be made for the third, and each following year after
the international filing date which has expired at the time of granting the
patent, within three months after publication in the Industrial Property
Bulletin of a mention of the grant of the patent. Payment of the subsequent
annual fees must be made within three months after the due date, namely the
expiration of the month containing the anniversary of the international filing
date. Payment can still be made, together with a 25% surcharge, within three
months or, together with a 50% surcharge, before the expiration of the sixth
month after the due date. Once the sixth month has expired, the patent may
still be maintained in force by paying, before the due date for the next
annual fee, the corresponding fee with a 50% surcharge and the regularization
fee. The amounts of the annual fees are indicated in Annex ES.I.

ES.06 DEED OF ASSIGNMENT

SRD Art. 101  
When the applicant claims the priority of an earlier application filed by an
applicant who is not identical with the applicant of the international
application, a deed (or deeds) of assignment must be furnished. For details,
refer to the sample of such deed (not an official form) in Annex ES.III.
Legalization is not required. For time limits, refer to the Summary. When the
applicant is not the inventor, it is sufficient to designate the inventor and
to indicate how the applicant acquired the right to the patent. Where the
applicant uses the form for national phase entry, it is not necessary to
submit a deed of assignment with regard to the applicant’s entitlement to
claim priority of the earlier application as that form contains a statement in
this regard (refer to Box 6 of form for national phase entry (Annex ES.II)).

ES.07 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION

SPL Art. 48, SRD Art. 101.2(e), PCT Art. 28, PCT Art. 41  
The applicant may amend or correct the claims, the description, and the
drawings before the grant of a patent according to the provisions of the law,
provided the scope of the subject matter of the application does not go beyond
the disclosure in the international application as filed. Any request for
amendment is subject to the payment of a fee for modification indicated in
Annex ES.I.

ES.08 REVIEW UNDER PCT ARTICLE 25

SPL Art. 44,  SPL Art. 54,  PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. If, upon review under PCT Article 25, the Office denies an
error or omission on the part of the receiving Office or the International
Bureau, a petition against this decision may be lodged within one month from
the date of publication of the decision in the Industrial Property Bulletin.
Within the same one-month time limit, a fee for petition must be paid (for the
amount, refer to Annex ES.I). If the Office confirms its decision, an
administrative appeal may be lodged with the competent court.

ES.09 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

SPL Art. 44,  SPL Art. 53,  SPL Art. 54,  SRD Art. 69,  PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT
Art. 48(2)  
Reestablishment of rights may be requested where the applicant was unable to
observe a time limit during the international phase or before the Office, in
spite all due care required by the circumstances having been taken. A request
for reestablishment must be filed with the Office in writing and the omitted
act must be completed. The request must state the grounds on which it is based
and must set out the facts to which it refers. If the Office refuses the
reestablishment of rights, an administrative appeal may be lodged within one
month after the publication of the final decision of the Office in the
Industrial Property Bulletin. Nevertheless, certain matters are excluded from
the reestablishment of rights. Time limits may be extended for two months by
the Office provided that the request for extension is made before the
expiration of the time limit. Any proceeding whose time limit falls on a
Saturday, a Sunday or a public holiday will be considered fulfilled in due
time if it is done on the first working day following that Saturday, Sunday or
public holiday.

ES.10 UTILITY MODEL

SPL Art. 141, PCT Art. 4(3), PCT Art. 43, PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1(a), PCT Rule 49
_bis_.1(b), PCT Rule 76.5  
If the applicant wishes to obtain a utility model instead of a patent in
Spain, on the basis of an international application, the applicant, when
performing the acts referred to in Article 22 or 39, shall so indicate to the
Office, preferably in the corresponding box of the application form.

ES.11

SRD Art. 58  
The requirements for the national phase are basically the same as for patents.

ES.12

PCT Art. 7(2)(ii),  PCT Rule 7.2  
Where the international application does not contain drawings, the applicant
must furnish the drawing(s) within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1). Where the applicant does not furnish the drawing(s) within that
time limit, the Office will invite him to furnish the drawing(s) within a time
limit fixed in the invitation. Where an international patent application is
converted into a utility model application (refer to the next paragraph), the
drawing(s) must be submitted together with the request for conversion.

ES.13 CONVERSION

SPL Art. 51,  SRD Art. 46  
An international application for a patent may be converted into a utility
model application after the applicant has complied with the requirements for
entry into the national phase for a patent application, as indicated in the
Summary. The conversion is subject to the payment of a fee for conversion
indicated in Annex ES.I and may be requested until the end of the substantive
examination of the patent application.

ES.14

SRD Art. 46  
An international application for a utility model may be converted into a
patent application after the applicant has complied with the requirements for
the entry into the national phase for a utility model application, as
indicated in the Summary. The conversion is subject to the payment of a fee
for conversion indicated in Annex ES.I and may be requested before the grant
of the utility model.

##  Annexes

Annex ES.I - Fees

For further information refer to Invention fees:  
<https://www.oepm.es/en/tasas-y-precios-publicos/tasas-de-invenciones/>

Patents or Utility models

— filing fee

Online 87.03 EUR

On paper 102.39 EUR

Fee for conversion

Online 8.94 EUR

On paper 10.50 EUR

Fee for amendment

Online 20.11 EUR

On paper 23.65 EUR

Request for prior art report

Where the Office benefits from a prior international search report, this fee
may be refunded or reduced depending upon the extent to which the Office
benefits from that earlier search refer to:

— SPL, Art. 183.2  
<https://www.boe.es/buscar/act.php?id=BOE-A-2015-8328>

— Instruction on the refund of search report fee and substantive examination
fee  
<https://www.oepm.es/export/sites/portal/comun/documentos_relacionados/PDF/2019_03_06_Reembolso_Tasas_IET_Resolucion.pdf>

Online 593.65 EUR

On paper 698.42 EUR

Request for examination

Where the Office benefits from a prior international preliminary examination
report, this fee may be refunded or reduced depending upon the extent to which
the Office benefits from that earlier examination report refer to:

— SPL, Art. 183.3  
<https://www.boe.es/buscar/act.php?id=BOE-A-2015-8328>

— Instruction on the refund of search report fee and substantive examination
fee  
<https://www.oepm.es/export/sites/portal/comun/documentos_relacionados/PDF/2019_03_06_Reembolso_Tasas_IET_Resolucion.pdf>

Online 337.96 EUR

On paper 397.61 EUR

Annual fees:

— for the 3rd year counted from the international filing date

18.85 EUR

— for the 4th year counted from the international filing date

23.52 EUR

— for the 5th year counted from the international filing date

45 EUR

— for the 6th year counted from the international filing date

66.41 EUR

— for the 7th year counted from the international filing date

109.63 EUR

— for the 8th year counted from the international filing date

136.47 EUR

— for the 9th year counted from the international filing date

171.26 EUR

— for the 10th year counted from the international filing date

220.40 EUR

— for the 11th year counted from the international filing date

276.27 EUR

— for the 12th year counted from the international filing date

324.37 EUR

— for the 13th year counted from the international filing date

372.39 EUR

— for the 14th year counted from the international filing date

420.86 EUR

— for the 15th year counted from the international filing date

449.45 EUR

— for the 16th year counted from the international filing date

468.07 EUR

— for the 17th to the 20th year counted from the international filing date

per year 499.85

Fee for regularization of an annual fee

On paper 102.01 EUR

Appeal fee

Online 76.39 EUR

On paper 89.86 EUR

Request for reestablishment of rights

Online 91.35 EUR

On paper 107.46 EUR

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of fees may be effected by electronic means or in cash. All
payments must be in Euro and indicate the application number, if already
known, the name of the payer and the category of fee being paid.

For more information, refer to Forms of payment of fees:  
<https://www.oepm.es/en/formas-de-pago/Pago-de-tasas/index.html>

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex ES.II - Request for entry into the national
phase](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_es.pdf)

[Annex ES.III - Power of
attorney](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_es.pdf)

[Annex ES.IV - Deed of
assignment](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_IV_es.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a b This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17  
2 ^ a Where the applicant uses the form for national phase entry, it is not
necessary to submit a deed of assignment with regard to the applicant’s
entitlement to claim priority of the earlier application as that form contains
a statement in this regard (refer to Box 6 of form for national phase entry
(Annex ES.II))  

Change(s) as of 18 April 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental Organization

Location:

Paseo de la Castellana 75  
28046 Madrid  
Spain

  

Close

Current version applicable from 18 Apr 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

