####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
GE - Useful informationGE - International PhaseGE - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationGE - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeGE - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialGE - National PhaseGE - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseGE - The procedure in the national PhaseGE - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide GE - Georgia  
National Intellectual Property Center of Georgia (SAKPATENTI)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **1 March 2024**

(published on 1 February 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
RO: RO fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 12 Oct 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 9 Nov 2023, 23 Nov 2023, 1 Jan 2024, 15
Jan 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for GE - National Intellectual Property Center of Georgia \(SAKPATENTI\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: National Intellectual Property Center of Georgia (SAKPATENTI)

PL: Georgian Patent Law

The text may be obtained on the Internet at <http://www.sakpatenti.gov.ge>

List of currencies used in this document:

GEL (Lari),

USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=GE).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Article 64(5)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Georgia

Two-letter code:

[GE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=GE&doc-lang=EN)

Georgia - National Intellectual Property Center of Georgia (SAKPATENTI)

Name of Office:

National Intellectual Property Center of Georgia (SAKPATENTI)

Location:

5 Antioch Str.  
3300 Mtskheta  
Georgia

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(995-32) 225 25 33

E-mail:

info@sakpatenti.gov.ge

Website:

<http://www.sakpatenti.gov.ge>

Facsimile:

(995-32) 298 84 26

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes, within 30 days from the date of the transmission

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

Yes, the Office is prepared to allow applicants to make international and
national applications available to the WIPO DAS

For further details on how to request this Office to make applications
available to DAS, refer to <http://www.sakpatenti.gov.ge/en>

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[GE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=GE&doc-lang=EN)

Georgia - National Intellectual Property Center of Georgia (SAKPATENTI)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[GE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=GE&doc-lang=EN)

Georgia - National Intellectual Property Center of Georgia (SAKPATENTI)

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents, utility models

European:

For international applications filed on or after 15 January 2024 (refer to OJ
EPO 2023, A105).

Validation of European patents

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

Upon entry into the national phase, Sakpatenti as a designated office or an
elected office shall publish the international application in Georgian
language as soon as the Georgian translation is submitted and the fee for
examination as to form and publication of the application is paid. From the
date of publication of the application in Georgian language the applicant
shall be granted the provisional rights.

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If the data concerning the inventor are missing at the
expiration of the time limit under Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite
the applicant to comply with the requirements within a time limit of two
months from the date of receipt of the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Georgia

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3).

English,

Georgian,

Russian

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Same language as the international application (English, Georgian or Russian);
or English and another filing language

Language in which the request may be filed:

English,

Russian

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

3

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notifications by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 1 June 2017, pages 82 _et seq._ and 18 August 2022, page
228.

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies both the “due care” and the “unintentional” criteria
to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[IL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IL&doc-lang=EN)

Israel - Israel Patent Office

,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

1,

[IL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IL&doc-lang=EN)

Israel - Israel Patent Office

2,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

2

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

This fee is reduced by 70% where the applicant is the inventor, a higher
educational institution or an independent scientific-research unit and by 90%
where the applicant is a student, a pupil or a pensioner.

Equivalent in GEL of 100 USD

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

235 USD

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

352 USD

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(AT)  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(IL)  
Annex D(RU)  
Annex D(US)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

This fee is reduced by 70% where the applicant is the inventor, a higher
educational institution or an independent scientific-research unit.

This fee is reduced by 90% where the applicant is a student, a pupil or a
pensioner.

Equivalent in GEL of 30 USD

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

This fee is reduced by 70% where the applicant is the inventor, a higher
educational institution or an independent scientific-research unit.

This fee is reduced by 90% where the applicant is a student, a pupil or a
pensioner.

Equivalent in GEL of 60 USD

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

As from 1 January 2025, an applicant not having a residence or a registered
legal address in Georgia shall appoint a patent attorney of Georgia as a
representative before Sakpatenti.

No, if the applicant resides in Georgia. If the applicant does not reside in
Georgia, it is highly recommended to appoint an agent.

Who can act as agent?

As from 1 January 2025, an applicant not having a residence or a registered
legal address in Georgia shall appoint a patent attorney of Georgia as a
representative before Sakpatenti.

Any person who is a resident of Georgia or a patent attorney of Georgia.

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Not applicable

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Not applicable

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

None

— any additional indications:

None

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

None

Additional information

Deposits may also be made for the purposes of patent procedure before the
National Intellectual Property Center of Georgia (SAKPATENTI) with “any
scientifically recognized institution at home and abroad” and that includes
all institutions published further in this Annex.

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(3): 31 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished within two months from the date of request for entry into
the national phase

Georgian

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished within two months from the date of request for entry into
the national phase

In certain circumstances, the Office is entitled to require both the
translation of the international application as originally filed and as
amended; in such a case, the Office will invite the applicant to supply the
missing translation

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, as originally filed or
as amended, if the applicant wishes the amendments to form the basis for the
proceedings, together with any statement under PCT Article 19 ), any text
matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, as originally filed or as
amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report, if
the applicant wishes the amendments to form the basis for proceedings)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

Fees are reduced:  
— by 70% where the applicant is the inventor, a higher educational institution
or an independent scientific research unit  
— by 90% where the applicant is a student, pupil or retiree  
— by 20% for applications filed electronically

Patents and Utility models

Fee for examination as to form and publication of application:

— up to 30 pages of application

This fee must be paid within one month from the date of request for entry into
the national phase.

Equivalent in GEL of 100 USD

— for each additional page over 30

This fee must be paid within one month from the date of the invitation to pay.

Equivalent in GEL of 3 USD

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit of two months from the date of receipt of the
invitation

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application 3

Deed of transfer where the applicant is not the inventor 3

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in Georgia

Power of attorney if an agent or representative is appointed

Furnishing, where applicable, of a nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence
listing in electronic form

Who can act as agent?

As from 1 January 2025 an applicant not having a residence or a registered
legal address in Georgia shall appoint a patent attorney of Georgia.

Any person who is a resident of Georgia or a patent attorney of Georgia.

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies both the “due care” and the “unintentional” criteria
to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

GE.01 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

GE.02 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

PL Art. 47  
The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex GE.I. The fee for examination as to form and publication
of the application (up to 30 pages of the application) must be paid within one
month from the date of request for entry into the national phase. The fee for
examination as to form and publication of the application (for each additional
page over 30) must be paid within one month from the date of the invitation to
pay.

GE.03 DEED OF TRANSFER

PL Art. 24.3  
If the applicant is not the inventor, a deed of transfer must be furnished
within two months from the date of the request for entry into the national
phase. There is no special form for this statement. Legalization is not
required.

GE.04 POWER OF ATTORNEY

PL Art. 24.2  
An agent must be appointed by filing a power of attorney within two months
from the date of request for entry into the national phase. Any person who is
a resident of Georgia or a patent attorney of Georgia may act as an agent.
From 1 January 2025 an applicant not having a residence or a registered legal
address in Georgia shall appoint a patent attorney of Georgia.

GE.05 MENTION OF INVENTOR

PL Art. 18.3  
If the inventor prefers to remain anonymous, a special request must be made to
the Office during the national phase.

GE.06 PRIORITY DOCUMENT (TRANSLATION)

PCT Rule 51 _bis_.1(e)  
The Office may require the applicant to furnish a translation of the priority
document into Georgian only in certain cases, and upon special invitation.

GE.07 FEE FOR GRANT

PL Art. 47  
Before issuance of the decision to grant the patent, the applicant is invited
to pay the fee for registration of the patent, the publication of the patent
and the issuance of the patent certificate within two months from the date of
receipt of the invitation. If paid on time, the patent is granted, published
and patent certificate issued. If the fee is not paid within the said time
limit, the grant of patent will not take place and proceedings with regard to
the application shall be terminated.

GE.08 MAINTENANCE FEE

PL Art. 47, PL Art. 54  
A maintenance fee is due as from the third year after the international filing
date. The maintenance fee is due on the anniversary of the filing date. If the
maintenance fee is not paid in time, the application proceedings are
terminated/the patent lapses. Reinstatement of the application is possible
upon payment of the missed maintenance fee and a reinstatement fee, within six
months from the date of termination of the application. If the patent
maintenance fee is not paid in time, reinstatement of the patent may be
requested. There is a six-month period from the due date for requesting
reinstatement of the patent by paying the missed maintenance fee without
surcharge, and an additional six-month period for requesting reinstatement of
the patent by paying the maintenance fee and a reinstatement fee. The amounts
of the maintenance fees are indicated in Annex GE.I.

GE.09 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase.

GE.10 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2),  PCT Rule 82 _bis_  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.

GE.11

PL Art. 46  
Reinstatement may be requested where the applicant has failed to comply with a
time limit during the international phase or before the Office.

A request for reinstatement of rights related with an international
application, lost due to the non-respect of the time limit for entry into the
national phase due to a justifiable reason, must be presented in writing
within two months after removal of the cause of non-compliance with the time
limit but not later than one year from the expiration of the time limit which
has not been observed. The applicant must complete the omitted act and pay the
reinstatement fee (indicated in Annex GE.I).

Reinstatement of an international application in the national phase forfeited
due to failure to meet a time limit is possible upon completing the omitted
act and payment of a reinstatement fee, within six months from the date of
termination of the application.

GE.12 UTILITY MODEL

PL Art. 73, PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1(a), PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1(b), PCT Rule 76.5  
If the applicant wishes his application to be treated as an application for
the grant of a utility model, when performing the acts referred to in Article
22 or 39, he shall so indicate to the Office.

GE.13

Utility model protection cannot be obtained for microorganism strains, plant
and animal cell cultures, biotechnology and genetic engineering subject-
matters, substances obtained by chemical processes, including pharmaceutical
substances.

A utility model is registered after a limited substantive examination. Novelty
is examined globally. Inventive step is not examined.

A utility model application must contain only one independent claim.

GE.14 CONVERSION

An international application for a patent may be converted into a utility
model application after the applicant has complied with the requirements for
entry into the national phase for a patent application, as indicated in the
Summary. Conversion can be requested before a decision of grant is issued.

GE.15

An international application for a utility model may be converted into a
patent application after the applicant has complied with the requirements for
entry into the national phase for a utility model application, as indicated in
the Summary. Conversion can be requested before a decision of grant is issued.

##  Annexes

Annex GE.I - Fees

All fees are payable in GEL equivalent of US dollar.

Fees are reduced:  
— by 70% where the applicant is the inventor, a higher educational institution
or an independent scientific research unit  
— by 90% where the applicant is a student, pupil or retiree

Patents

Fee for examination as to form and publication of application:

— up to 30 pages of application

This fee must be paid within one month from the date of request for entry into
the national phase.

100 USD 4

— for each additional page over 30

This fee must be paid within one month from the date of the invitation to pay.

3 USD 4

Substantive examination up to 10 claims:

300 USD 4

— for each additional claim over 10

30 USD 4

Substantive examination for each additional claim filed after issuing
examination report

30 USD 4

Fee for extension of term to reply to official actions

30 USD

Fee for voluntary amendments during processing

40 USD

Fee for voluntary amendments after grant

60 USD

Fee for reinstatement of rights of the applicant with respect to an
international application where the applicant failed to comply with the
requirement of Article 22 or 39(1)

100 USD

Fee for restoration of the right of priority

60 USD

Fee for registration of patent, publication of patent, issuance of patent
certificate (up to 30 pages)

200 USD 4

— for each additional page over 30

3 USD 4

Fee for requesting supplementary protection certificate for patent

100 USD

Fee for reinstatement of a patent

100 USD

Maintenance fees:

for application or patent:

— from the 3rd to the 5th year

per year 50 USD

— from the 6th to the 8th year

per year 70 USD

— from the 9th to the 11th year

per year 170 USD

— from the 12th to the 14th year

per year 250 USD

— from the 15th to the 17th year

per year 300 USD

— from the 18th to the 20th year

per year 500 USD

for supplementary protection certificate:

100 USD

— for the 21st year

600 USD

— for the 22nd year

700 USD

— for the 23rd year

800 USD

— for the 24th year

900 USD

— for the 25th year

1,000 USD

— for the 26th year

1,100 USD

Utility models

Fee for examination as to form and publication of application:

— up to 30 pages of application

This fee must be paid within one month from the date of request for entry into
the national phase.

100 USD 4

— for each additional page over 30

This fee must be paid within one month from the date of the invitation to pay.

3 USD 4

Substantive examination up to 10 claims:

150 USD 4

— for each additional claim over 10

15 USD 4

Substantive examination for each additional claim filed after issuing
examination report

15 USD 4

Fee for conversion of patent application into utility model application

50 USD

Fee for conversion of utility model application into patent application

70 USD

Fee for registration of utility model, publication of utility model, issuance
of utility model certificate (up to 30 pages):

150 USD 4

— for each additional page over 30

3 USD 4

Fee for reinstatement of a utility model

100 USD

Maintenance fees for utility models:

— for the 3rd and 4th years

per year, 50 USD

— for the 5th and 6th years

per year, 70 USD

— for the 7th and 8th years

per year, 170 USD

— for the 9th and 10th years

per year, 250 USD

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of fees must be effected in GEL equivalent in USD. If the
applicant is not a resident in Georgia, the payment must be effected by an
agent or a representative. All payments must indicate the application number,
the name of the applicant and the category of fee being paid.

The payment of all fees is due to the National Intellectual Property Center of
Georgia (SAKPATENTI) and should be effected by a bank transfer at the
following account:

Identification code  
203831363

Beneficiary’s bank  
State Treasury

Beneficiary’s name  
Unified Account of Treasury

Bank code  
TRESGE22

Account number/Treasury code (GEL)  
707807132

For a complete list of fees, refer to the Resolution of the Government of
Georgia No. 182 of 3 July 2010 Tbilisi On Approval of Fees for the Service
Related with Patenting, Registration and Deposition of Intellectual Property
Subject-Matters:  
<https://www.sakpatenti.gov.ge/media/page_files/fees_resolution_182_2023_en.pdf>

For fees relating only to patent and utility models, refer to the extract of
the Resolution:  
<https://www.sakpatenti.gov.ge/en/page/264/>

Forms

Please refer to the Office.

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office or by the Austrian Patent Office.  
2 ^ a b The Office is competent only if the international search is or has
been carried out by that Office.  
3 ^ a b This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  
4 ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n This fee is reduced by 20% for applications
filed electronically.  

Change(s) as of 1 March 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

235 USD

  

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

352 USD

  

Close

Current version applicable from 1 Mar 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

