####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
GM - Useful informationGM - International PhaseGM - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationGM - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeGM - National PhaseGM - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseGM - The procedure in the national PhaseGM - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide GM - Gambia  
Registrar General's Department, Ministry of Justice (Gambia)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **15 September 2023**

(published on 15 September 2023)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
From now on, you will find here a summary of changes to each new version of
the PCT Applicant's Guide, as well as the detailed list of these changes.
Moreover, you can now easily access the historical versions of the Guide.  
  
  

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicantâ€™s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for GM - Registrar General's Department, Ministry of Justice \(Gambia\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Registrar General's Department, Ministry of Justice (Gambia)

IPA: Industrial Property Act (Cap.95:03), 2 April 2007

IPR: Industrial Property Regulations, 1 January 2011

List of currencies used in this document:

GMD (Dalasi), USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=GM).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Gambia

Two-letter code:

[GM](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=GM&doc-lang=EN)

Gambia - Registrar General's Department, Ministry of Justice (Gambia)

Name of Office:

Registrar General's Department, Ministry of Justice (Gambia)

Location:

Marina Parade  
Banjul  
Gambia

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(220) 422 84 50  
(220) 422 86 65  
(220) 314 10 05

E-mail:

info@moj.gov.gm  
colleyabdoulie@yahoo.com

Website:

<http://www.moj.gov.gm>

Facsimile:

None

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[AP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AP&doc-lang=EN)

African Regional Intellectual Property Organization - African Regional
Intellectual Property Organization (ARIPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: GM

ARIPO protection: AP

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents

Utility models

ARIPO:

Patents

Utility models (a utility model may be sought instead of or in addition to an
ARIPO patent)

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

For national protection

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If not already complied with within the time limit
applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant
to comply with the requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

No

For an ARIPO patent

Refer to [Annex B(AP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=AP&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

The Office does not act as receiving Office

This Office has delegated its RO functions to RO/AP. Refer to [Annex
C(AP)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AP&doc-
lang=EN&doc-type=ANNEX) for more information.

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

English

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, as amended only,
together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any text matter of
drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, only as amended by the
annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Patents

Filing fee

Includes examination, grant and publication

5,000 GMD

or 400 USD 1

Utility models

Filing fee

2,500 GMD

or 200 USD 1

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in the Gambia (a
power of attorney must be furnished)

Who can act as agent?

Any attorney or patent attorney registered in the Gambia

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, please refer to the Office for the applicable criteria and/or any fee
payable for such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

GM.01 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

GM.02 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex GM.I.

GM.03 REPRESENTATION

IPA Sec. 38,  IPR Sec. 6  
Where the ordinary residence or principal place of business of the applicant
is outside Gambia, she/he has to appoint an agent who is a legal practitioner
resident and practicing in Gambia. This may be done on Form A1, a model of
which is given in Annex GM.II.

GM.04 EXAMINATION

IPA Sec. 10(3),  IPA Sec. 10(4),  IPR Sec. 20(1)  
The Office will examine the application as to substance.

GM.05 ANNUAL FEES

IPA Sec. 13(3)  
Annual fees must be paid in advance to the Registrar General for each year,
starting one year after the filing date of the application for grant of the
patent. A period of grace of six months is granted for the payment of the
annual fee upon payment of a prescribed surcharge. In case of non-payment of
the annual fee, the patent application shall be deemed to have been withdrawn
or the patent shall lapse. The payment of each annual fee shall be accompanied
by a statement on Form P8, a model of which is given in Annex GM.IV.

GM.06 PUBLICATION OF APPLICATIONS

IPA Sec. 39(3),  IPR Sec. 48  
All applications are published in the official bulletin (The Gambia Gazette)
within two months after entry into the national phase.

GM.07 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION

IPA Sec. 7(2),  IPR Sec. 28(2)  
The applicant may amend the application, provided that the amendment shall not
go beyond the disclosure of the initial application. An amendment of the
application shall be made on Form P3, a model of which is given in Annex
GM.III.

GM.08 UTILITY MODEL

IPA Sec. 16  
Subject to paragraph GM.09, if the applicant wishes to obtain a utility model
instead of a patent in Gambia, on the basis of an international application,
the applicant, when performing the acts referred to in Article 22 or 39, shall
so indicate to the Office. The fees relating to utility models are indicated
in Annex GM.I.

GM.09 CONVERSION OF PATENT APPLICATION INTO UTILITY MODEL APPLICATION

IPA Sec. 18  
An international application for a patent may be converted into a utility
model application and _vice versa_ at any time before the grant or refusal of
a patent, upon payment of the prescribed fee. The converted application will
have the filing date of the initial application. An application may not be
converted more than once.

GM.10 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2),  PCT Rule 82 _bis_  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase. At the
Director Generalâ€™s discretion, the applicant may be given an extension of any
time limit prescribed by the Regulations and the Administrative Instructions.
Such extension may be granted even if the time limit has already expired.

##  Annexes

Annex GM.I - Fees

Patents

Filing fee (includes examination, grant and publication)

5,000 GMD

400 USD 1

Amendment of patent application or priority claim

1,500 GMD

120 USD 1

Request for correction of patent application

None

Record of particulars of patent registration

None

Certificate of Grant of Patent

None

Annual fees:

â€” for the 1st year

250 USD 1

â€” for the 2nd year to the 9th years

per year, 300 USD 1

â€” for the 10th year

400 USD 1

â€” for the 11th year

500 USD 1

â€” for the 12th year

600 USD 1

â€” for the 13th year

700 USD 1

â€” for the 14th year

800 USD 1

â€” for the 15th year

900 USD 1

â€” for the 16th year

1,000 USD 1

â€” for the 17th year

1,100 USD 1

â€” for the 18th year

1,200 USD 1

â€” for the 19th year

1,300 USD 1

Utility models

Filing fee

2,500 GMD

200 USD 1

How can payment of fees be effected?

Payment of fees must be effected in Gambian dalasi or US Dollar 1

All payments must indicate the application number (national if already known;
international if the national number is not yet known), the name of the
applicant and the type of fee being paid

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex GM.II - Power of attorney (Form
A1)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_gm.pdf)

[Annex GM.III - Amendment of patent application or priority claim (Form
P3)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_gm.pdf)

[Annex GM.IV - Statement accompanying Payment of Annuity (Form
P8)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_IV_gm.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r For applicants who are not residents
of Gambia  

Change(s) as of 15 September 2023 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference.
Mouse hover the text to consult previous value)

Close

Current version applicable from 15 Sep 2023 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

