####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
GT - Useful informationGT - International PhaseGT - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationGT - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeGT - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialGT - National PhaseGT - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseGT - The procedure in the national PhaseGT - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide GT - Guatemala  
Registry of Intellectual Property (Guatemala)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **15 September 2023**

(published on 15 September 2023)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
From now on, you will find here a summary of changes to each new version of
the PCT Applicant's Guide, as well as the detailed list of these changes.
Moreover, you can now easily access the historical versions of the Guide.  
  
BIO: Various  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for GT - Registry of Intellectual Property \(Guatemala\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Registry of Intellectual Property (Guatemala)

List of currencies used in this document:

GTQ (Quetzal)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=GT).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Guatemala

Two-letter code:

[GT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=GT&doc-lang=EN)

Guatemala - Registry of Intellectual Property (Guatemala)

Name of Office:

Registry of Intellectual Property (Guatemala)

Location:

7a. Avenida 7-61 zona 4  
primer nivel  
Guatemala Ciudad  
01004  
Guatemala

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(502) 232 470 70 extension 105

E-mail:

rvaldes@rpi.gob.gt  
mmoreira@rpi.gob.gt  
ccastaneda@rpi.gob.gt

Website:

<http://www.rpi.gob.gt>

Facsimile:

None

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

Refer to corresponding Annex C

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Not applicable

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[GT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=GT&doc-lang=EN)

Guatemala - Registry of Intellectual Property (Guatemala)

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Patents

Utility models

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If not already complied with within the time limit
applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant
to comply with the requirement within a time limit of three months from the
date of the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

The Office does not act as receiving Office

This Office has delegated its RO functions to RO/IB. Refer to [Annex
C(IB)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-
lang=EN&doc-type=ANNEX) for more information.

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

At the time of filing (must be in the description)

— any additional indications:

None

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, a description of the characteristics
of the microorganism and/or other biological material

Additional information

Deposits may be made for the purposes of patent procedure before the Registry
of Intellectual Property (Guatemala) with any depositary institution having
acquired the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest
Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for
the Purposes of Patent Procedure (these institutions are indicated further in
this Annex and notifications related thereto may be consulted under
<https://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>). The certificate of
deposit must be translated into Spanish upon entry into the national phase.

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Spanish

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended), any text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

Yes

National fees:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Patents

Filing fee

2,500 GTQ

Utility models

Filing fee

1,000 GTQ

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application 1 2

Declaration as to the applicant’s entitlement to apply for and be granted a
patent 1 2

Declaration as to the applicant’s entitlement to claim priority of the earlier
application 1 2

Document evidencing a change of name of the applicant 2

Translation of the international application to be furnished in two copies 2

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in Guatemala

Power of attorney if an agent is appointed

Furnishing, where applicable, of a nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence
listing in electronic form

Who can act as agent?

Any attorney registered in Guatemala

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies both the “unintentional” and the “due care” criteria
to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

Information not yet available

##  Annexes

Annex GT.I - Fees

Information not yet available

Forms

Please refer to the Office.

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a b c This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration
has been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  
2 ^ a b c d e If not already complied with within the time limit applicable
under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply
with the requirement within a time limit of three months from the date of
receipt of the invitation.  

Change(s) as of 15 September 2023 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference.
Mouse hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Additional information

Deposits may be made for the purposes of patent procedure before the Registry
of Intellectual Property (Guatemala) with any depositary institution having
acquired the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest
Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for
the Purposes of Patent Procedure (these institutions are indicated further in
this Annex and notifications related thereto may be consulted under
<https://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>). The certificate of
deposit must be translated into Spanish upon entry into the national phase.

  

Close

Current version applicable from 15 Sep 2023 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

