####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
HN - Useful informationHN - International PhaseHN - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationHN - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeHN - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialHN - National PhaseHN - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseHN - The procedure in the national PhaseHN - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide HN - Honduras  
Directorate General of Intellectual Property (Honduras)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **1 March 2024**

(published on 1 February 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
RO: RO fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 1 Jan 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for HN - Directorate General of Intellectual Property \(Honduras\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Directorate General of Intellectual Property (Honduras)

D12-99: Industrial Property Law, Decree No. 12-99-E

List of currencies used in this document:

HNL (Lempira), USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=HN).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Honduras

Two-letter code:

[HN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=HN&doc-lang=EN)

Honduras - Directorate General of Intellectual Property (Honduras)

Name of Office:

Directorate General of Intellectual Property (Honduras)

Location:

Edificio anexo San José  
Boulevard Kuwait  
3er piso  
Tegucigalpa  
Honduras

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(504) 235 52 79  
(504) 235 52 97

E-mail:

patentes@ip.gob.hn  
camilo.bendeck@ip.gob.hn

Website:

<http://www.ip.gob.hn>

Facsimile:

(504) 239 72 90

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by e-mail or facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes, within one month from the date of the transmission, if the transmitted
document is the international application or a replacement sheet containing
corrections or amendments of the international application

No, only upon invitation in the case of other documents

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

Yes

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[HN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=HN&doc-lang=EN)

Honduras - Directorate General of Intellectual Property (Honduras)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[HN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=HN&doc-lang=EN)

Honduras - Directorate General of Intellectual Property (Honduras)

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Patents

Utility models

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

Decree No. 12-99E of the Industrial Property Law of 18 December 1999 and
Decree No. 16-2006 of the Implementation of Free Trade Treaty Law of 15 March
2006

Provisional protection after international publication:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If not already complied with within the time limit
applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant
to comply with the requirement within a time limit of two months from the date
of receipt of the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Honduras

Language in which international applications may be filed:

Depending on the applicant’s choice of competent International Searching
Authority, a translation into a corresponding language (refer to Annex D) may
have to be furnished by the applicant (PCT Rule 12.3)

Spanish

Language in which the request may be filed:

Spanish

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Information not yet available

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies both the “unintentional” and the “due care” criteria
to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[ES](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ES&doc-lang=EN)

Spain - Spanish Patent and Trademark Office

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[ES](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ES&doc-lang=EN)

Spain - Spanish Patent and Trademark Office

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

200 USD

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(ES)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

50 USD

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

50 USD

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

Yes

Who can act as agent?

Any attorney registered in Honduras

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Not applicable

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Not applicable

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

At the time of filing, either in the description or separately

— any additional indications:

At the time of filing, either in the description or separately

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, relevant information on the
characteristics of the microorganism

Additional information

Deposits may be made for the purposes of patent procedure before the
Directorate General of Intellectual Property (Honduras) with any depositary
institution having acquired the status of international depositary authority
under the Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of
Microorganisms for the Purposes of Patent Procedure (these institutions are
indicated further in this Annex and notifications related thereto may be
consulted under <https://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>).

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Spanish

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended), any text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

Patents or Utility models

Filing fee

1,500 HNL

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Annual fees

per year, 200 HNL

Substantive examination fee

1,500 HNL

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

The fees are reduced by 90% where the applicant is the inventor and he
provides a declaration indicating that his economic situation prevents him
from paying the full amount of the fees.

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application 1 2

Document evidencing a change of name of the applicant 2

Declaration as to the applicant’s entitlement to apply for and be granted a
patent 1 2

Declaration as to the applicant’s entitlement to claim priority where the
applicant is not the applicant who filed the earlier application 1 2

Translation of the international application to be furnished in three copies 2

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in Honduras

Power of attorney if an agent is appointed

Furnishing, where applicable, of a nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence
listing in electronic form

Who can act as agent?

Any attorney registered in Honduras

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies both the “unintentional” and the “due care” criteria
to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

HN.01 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as originally
filed (refer to National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

HN.02 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex HN.I.

HN.03 DIVISIONAL APPLICATIONS

D12-99 Art. 37  
Where the application lacks unity of invention, the applicant will be invited
to file divisional applications within two months from the date of the
invitation. Each divisional application will benefit from the same filing date
and any applicable priority date as the international application which
entered the national phase. Filing fees are due for each divisional
application (refer to Annex HN.I).

HN.04 ANNUAL FEES

D12-99 Art. 16  
Annual fees are payable in advance each year before the anniversary of the
international filing date, beginning with the third year. Two or more annual
fees may be paid in advance. A period of grace of six months is granted for
the payment of the annual fee, subject to the payment of a surcharge. Failure
to pay any of the annual fees will automatically cause the expiration of the
patent or the patent application. The amount of the annual fees are indicated
in Annex HN.I.

HN.05 EXAMINATION

D12-99 Art. 54  
The Office examines international patent applications as to substance. The
amount of the examination fee is indicated in Annex HN.I.

HN.06 APPOINTMENT OF AN AGENT

D12-99 Art. 45(5)  
If the applicant is not resident in Honduras, an agent shall be appointed by
filing a power of attorney, signed by the applicant. Any attorney registered
in Honduras may act as agent.

HN.07 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2),  PCT Rule 82 _bis_  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.

HN.08 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase.

HN.09 CONVERSION

D12-99 Art. 56  
An international application for a patent may be converted into a utility
model, and _vice versa_ , after the applicant has complied with the
requirements for entry into the national phase. Conversion may be requested
before the date of publication of the decision to grant. The conversion is
subject to the payment of a fee indicated in Annex HN.I.

##  Annexes

Annex HN.I - Fees

The fees are reduced by 90% where the applicant is the inventor and she/he
provides a declaration indicating that her/his economic situation prevents
her/him from paying the full amount of the fees

Patents

Filing fee

1,500 HNL

Fee for each divisional application

2,000 HNL

Fee for modification or correction

1,000 HNL

Assignment fee

300 HNL

Search fee

1,000 HNL

Substantive examination fee

1,500 HNL

Fee for reinstatement of rights

3,000 HNL

Fee for opposition

1,500 HNL

Grant and registration fee

700 HNL

Annual fees, due from the international filing date

per year, 200 HNL

Fee for conversion

1,000 HNL

Utility models

Filing fee

1,500 HNL

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of fees has to be effected in Honduran lempiras. All payments must
indicate the application number (national, if already known; international, if
the national application number is not yet known), the name of the applicant
and the category of fee being paid.

Forms

Please refer to the Office.

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a b c This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration
has been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17  
2 ^ a b c d e If not already complied with within the time limit applicable
under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply
with the requirement within a time limit of two months from the date of
receipt of the invitation  

Change(s) as of 1 March 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Close

Current version applicable from 1 Mar 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

