####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
HU - Useful informationHU - International PhaseHU - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationHU - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeHU - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialHU - National PhaseHU - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseHU - The procedure in the national PhaseHU - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide HU - Hungary  
Hungarian Intellectual Property Office (HIPO)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **18 April 2024**

(published on 18 April 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
GENERAL INFO: Payment methods  
RO: Electronic filing, Incorporation by reference  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase: National phase,
Restoration of the right of priority, Reinstatement of rights  
Annexes: Various  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 2 Nov 2023, 1 Jan 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for HU - Hungarian Intellectual Property Office \(HIPO\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Hungarian Intellectual Property Office (HIPO)

HPL: Hungarian Law on the Protection of Inventions by Patents, Law No. XXXIII
of 1995

HUML: Hungarian Law on Utility Model Protection, Law No. XXXVIII of 1991

List of currencies used in this document:

HUF (Hungarian forint)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=HU).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Article 64(5), Rule 23 _bis_.2(e)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Hungary

Two-letter code:

[HU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=HU&doc-lang=EN)

Hungary - Hungarian Intellectual Property Office (HIPO)

Name of Office:

Hungarian Intellectual Property Office (HIPO)

Location:

II. János Pál pápa tér 7  
1081 Budapest  
Hungary

Mailing address:

P.O. Box 415  
1438 Budapest  
Hungary

Telephone:

(36-1) 312 44 00

E-mail:

sztnh@hipo.gov.hu

Website:

<http://www.hipo.gov.hu>

Facsimile:

(36-1) 331 25 96

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes, within 14 days from the date of the transmission, if the transmitted
document is the international application or a replacement sheet containing
corrections or amendments of the international application

No, only upon invitation in the case of other documents

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[HU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=HU&doc-lang=EN)

Hungary - Hungarian Intellectual Property Office (HIPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: HU

European patent: EP

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents

Utility models (a utility model may be sought instead of a national patent)

European:

Patents

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

All fees shall be payable to the account No. 10032000-01731842-00000000 of the
Hungarian Intellectual Property Office kept with the Hungarian State Treasury
by bank transfer or money order, with the indication of the identifying data
(reference number or the registration number) and the purpose (legal ground).
If the applicant is not resident in Hungary or in one of the member States of
the European Economic Area, he can validly effect payments exclusively through
his agent—patent attorney or attorney-at-law—domiciled in Hungary.

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

Article 69/B, Act XXXIII of 1995 on the Protection of Inventions by Patents

Provisional protection after international publication:

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a national patent:

The international application made available to the public shall obtain
temporary protection, under paragraphs (1) and (2) of PCT Article 29, as from
the day on which the issue of the Official Gazette of the Hungarian
Intellectual Property Office (HIPO) containing the announcement of the
publication of the Hungarian translation of the international application has
come out. This date, until the contrary is proved, is the day of publication
indicated in the Official Gazette. On the basis of the temporary protection,
the applicant may, however, proceed against the unauthorized exploitation of
the invention but the procedure shall be suspended until a decision of legal
force is made for the grant of a patent.

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a European patent:

The provisional protection shall be effective in Hungary as from the day on
which the Hungarian Intellectual Property Office (HIPO) publishes an
announcement of the filing of the translation of the claims into Hungarian.

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

For national protection

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished later but must be given within 31
months from the priority date. This requirement can also be fulfilled within
three months from the last day of the said time limit subject to the payment
of an additional fee provided for under the national law. If not complied with
within the prescribed time limits, the international application shall have no
effect in Hungary.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

For a European patent

Refer to [Annex B(EP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=ep&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Hungary

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annnex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (refer to PCT Rule 12.3)

If the language in which the international application is filed is not a
language of publication and no translation is required for the purposes of
international search (PCT Rule 12.3(a)), the applicant will have to furnish a
translation of the application into English (PCT Rule 12.4(a))

English,

French,

German,

Hungarian

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Same language as the international application (English, French, German or
Hungarian)

Language in which the request may be filed:

English,

French,

German

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

3

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notifications by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 28 May 2015, pages 85 _et seq._ and 29 June 2023, page
139.

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

No

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[XV](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=XV&doc-lang=EN)

Visegrad Patent Institute - Visegrad Patent Institute (VPI)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[XV](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=XV&doc-lang=EN)

Visegrad Patent Institute - Visegrad Patent Institute (VPI)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

11,800 HUF

International filing fee:

536,300 HUF

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

6,000 HUF

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

80,600 HUF

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

121,000 HUF

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(XV)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

per page 300 HUF  
per document, plus 3,000 HUF

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

Please refer to the Office

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No

Who can act as agent?

Any authorized representative, such as a Hungarian patent attorney or
attorney-at-law or registered European patent attorney

The list of registered patent attorneys is available on the website of the
Hungarian Chamber of Patent Attorneys (HCPA) at:  
[http://www.szabadalmikamara.hu/Index.aspx?MN=Tagok_MindenTag&](http://www.szabadalmikamara.hu/Index.aspx?MN=Tagok_MindenTag&);LN=English

Waiver of power of attorney:

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Refer to the Office

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Refer to the Office

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

At the time of filing for notification of the fact that a deposit was made on
or before the filing date

— any additional indications:

None

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, the characteristics of the
microorganism and a taxonomic description

Additional information

Deposits may also be made for the purposes of patent procedure before the
Hungarian Intellectual Property Office (HIPO) with “any internationally well-
known depositary institution in case of reciprocity.”

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(3): 31 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes, the Office permits reinstatement of rights under the "unintentional"
criterion.

Fee for reinstatement (fee for reestablishment of rights)

117,700 HUF

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Hungarian

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

No

National fees:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Patents

Where the Office is a designated Office:

37,400 HUF

— for the 11th to the 20th claim

per claim, plus 1,900 HUF

— for the 21st to the 30th claim

per claim, plus 3,800 HUF

— for each claim in excess of 30

plus 5,600 HUF

Where the Office is an elected Office:

HUF 18,700

— for the 11th to the 20th claim

per claim, plus 950 HUF

— for the 21st to the 30th claim

per claim, plus 1,900 HUF

— for each claim in excess of 30

plus 2,800 HUF

Utility models

18,700 HUF

— for each claim in excess of 10

plus 1,200 HUF

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application 1

Declaration of assignment where the applicant is not the inventor 2

Appointment of an agent if the applicant has neither a residence nor his
principal place of business within the territory of the European Union or in a
State party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area 3

Who can act as agent?

Any authorized representative, such as a Hungarian patent attorney or
attorney-at-law or registered European patent attorney

The list of registered patent attorneys is available on the website of the
Hungarian Chamber of Patent Attorneys (HCPA) at:  
[http://www.szabadalmikamara.hu/Index.aspx?MN=Tagok_MindenTag&](http://www.szabadalmikamara.hu/Index.aspx?MN=Tagok_MindenTag&);LN=English

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

HU.01 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

HU.02 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex HU.I.

HU.03 DECLARATION OF ASSIGNMENT

HPL Art. 8(1)  
For details, refer to the model of such declaration (not an official form) in
Annex HU.II. Legalization is not required. For time limits, refer to the
Summary.

HU.04 APPOINTMENT OF AGENT

HPL Art. 51(2)  
Foreign applicants (natural persons or legal entities not having permanent
residence or domicile in the territory of a Member State of the European
Economic Area) shall be represented by an authorized patent attorney or an
attorney-at-law in all patent matters before the Office. An agent must be
appointed by filing a power of attorney. A model is given in Annex HU.III.

HU.05 SUPPLEMENTARY HUNGARIAN SEARCH REPORT (IN CASE OF LACK OF UNITY OF
INVENTION)

HPL Art. 84/S,  HPL Art. 84/S(7),  HPL Art. 84/S(8),  HPL Art. 84/S(9)  
Where a part of the international application was not subjected to
international search, the applicant must, within three months from the date of
furnishing a Hungarian translation of the international application, pay the
additional fee for search (refer to Annex HU.I); otherwise the parts not
searched will be considered withdrawn.

HU.06 DRAWINGS ILLUSTRATING THE INVENTION

PCT Art. 7(2)(ii),  HPL Art. 57(2),  HPL Art. 57(3),  HPL Art. 68,  HPL Art.
84/Z (1)  
Upon special invitation by the Office during patent examination the applicant
must furnish drawings illustrating the invention, even where they are not
necessary for the understanding of the invention, but the nature of the
invention admits of illustration by drawings.

HU.07 ANNUAL FEES

HPL Art. 70,  HPL Art. 23  
The international application is published by the Office as soon as possible
following the filing of the Hungarian translation of the international
application. By the date of that publication, of which the applicant is
informed by the Office, annual fees must be paid for each year which has
lapsed since the international filing date. Annual fees for subsequent years
must be paid in advance and are due on the anniversary of the international
filing date. Payment can still be made within six months from the due date.
The amounts of the annual fees are indicated in Annex HU.I.

HU.08 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  HPL Art. 72  
The applicant may make amendments to the description, claims and drawings
until the day on which the decision on the grant of the patent is delivered.
The amendments should not go beyond the content of the application as filed.
Any amendment during the national phase is subject to the payment of an
amendment fee (refer to Annex HU.I).

HU.09 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51,  HPL Art. 84/Z (3)  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. If, upon review under PCT Article 25, the Office denies an
error or omission on the part of the receiving Office or the International
Bureau, a request for rejudgment of that decision may be filed within 30 days
from the date of the notification of this decision. The Budapest-Capital
Regional Court (Fóvárosi Törvényszék) will then decide that request.

HU.10 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2)  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.

HU.11

HPL Art. 48  
Certain time limits are prescribed by the law; these shall not be extended and
their non-observance involves legal consequences without notice. Time limits
not prescribed by the law are fixed by the Office; these time limits of at
least two months, but not more than four months, may be extended by at least
two months, but not more than four months upon request and payment of a fee
for extension of time limits (refer to Annex HU.I). Further extensions of the
time limit and an extension of more than four months, but not more than six
months, may be given only in special cases.

HU.12

HPL Art. 49,  HPL Art. 61(1)(c),  HPL Art. 48(3),  par. (1) to (3),  HPL Art.
61(2) and (6)  
Restitutio in integrum may be requested where the applicant has failed to
observe a time limit during the international phase or before the Office.

A request for _restitutio in integrum_ may be submitted within two months of
the unobserved date or on the last day of the unobserved time limit, if the
failure occurred through no fault of the applicant. The request must indicate
the reasons for failing to comply and that the failure was unintentional.

Where the failure to comply became known to the applicant subsequently or the
cause thereof was removed subsequently, the time limit shall be calculated
from the date on which the failure to comply became known or the cause thereof
was removed. The request for _restitutio in integrum_ shall only be admissible
within twelve months from the date not complied with or the last day of the
time limit not complied with.

Where a time limit is not complied with, the omitted act must be carried out
simultaneously with the filing of the request for _restitutio in integrum_.

If the Office grants _restitutio in integrum_ , the acts carried out by the
applicant in default shall be considered to have been performed within the
time limit not complied with; a hearing held on the date not complied with
shall be repeated where necessary. The decision taken as a result of the
failure shall be revoked in whole or in part, modified or maintained as
necessary or depending on the outcome of the new hearing.

Restitutio in integrum shall be excluded in the event of failing to comply
with the following time limits:

(a) time limits fixed for filing the request for _restitutio in integrum_ and
the request for continuation of the procedure;

(b) time limits fixed for filing and correcting the declaration of priority.

Restitutio in integrum shall not be admissible with respect to time limits the
consequences of failing to comply with which may be averted by a request for
continuation of the procedure.

HPL Art. 40  
Where the patent protection ceased due to failure to pay the annual fee and
such failure was caused by a justifiable reason, the patent protection may be
restored upon request filed within three months after the expiration of the
six-month grace period referred to in paragraph HU.07 and provided that double
the annual fee for the year in question is paid.

HU.13 UTILITY MODEL

HUML Art. 1,  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1,  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1 (a),  PCT Rule 49
_bis_.1 (b),  PCT Rule 76.5  
If the applicant wishes to obtain utility model protection on the basis of an
international application—instead of a patent—, the applicant, when performing
the acts referred to in Article 22 or 39, shall so indicate to the Office. The
subject of utility model protection can be any solution relating to the
configuration or construction of an article or to the arrangement of parts
thereof which is new, involves inventive step and is susceptible of industrial
application. Utility model protection does not cover processes, chemical
compositions, foodstuffs, pharmaceuticals, plant varieties or animal breeds,
microorganisms or aesthetic designs of an article.

HU.14 DERIVATION

HUML Art. 30  
The applicant may retain the priority of an international patent application
in the national phase if in an additional application for a utility model for
the same subject matter (derivation from patent application) he makes a
declaration, filed within two months from the date of filing of the utility
model application, to this effect, provided that the derived utility model
application is filed within the following time limits:

(a) in the course of the patent application procedure up to the date when the
decision on the grant of patent becomes final or within three months from the
date when the decision rejecting the patent application becomes final, or

(b) within three months from the date when the decision declaring nullity of
the patent for lack of novelty or lack of inventive step becomes final.

The application for the derivation of a utility model application is
admissible only within 10 years from the filing date of the patent
application.

HU.15

HPL Art. 62  
The applicant may retain the priority of an earlier filed international
utility model application in the national phase if, in an additional patent
application for the same subject matter (derivation from utility model
application), he makes a declaration, filed within two months from the date of
filing of the patent application, to this effect, provided that the patent
application is filed within three months from the date when the decision on
the grant of utility model protection becomes final, but not later than within
20 years from the filing date of the utility model application.

##  Annexes

Annex HU.I - Fees

National fee for a patent application:

— where the Office is a designated Office

37,400 HUF

— plus for each claim from 11 to 20

1,900 HUF

— plus for each claim from 21 to 30

3,800 HUF

— plus for each claim in excess of 30

5,600 HUF

— where the Office is an elected Office

18,700 HUF

— plus for each claim from 11 to 20

950 HUF

— plus for each claim from 21 to 30

1,900 HUF

— plus for each claim in excess of 30

2,800 HUF

National fee for a utility model application

18,700 HUF

— plus for each claim in excess of 10

1,200 HUF

Additionnal fee for late furnishing of the translation of the international
application and/or late payment of the national fee

58,700 HUF

Fee for a request for reestablishment of rights where the effect of an
international patent application has ceased, in addition to the national fee  
  

117,700 HUF

Fees in the national procedure:

— examination fee 4

63,800 HUF

— fee for grant and printing fee (including six pages) 4

35,200 HUF

— for each page of the specification and drawings in excess of six 4

3,500 HUF

— fee for grant and printing fee where the application contains disclosure of
one or more nucleotide or amino acid sequences only on electronic medium

117,700 HUF

Amendment fee:

— for the 1st request

5,300 HUF

— for the second request

9,350 HUF

— for further requests

17,600 HUF

— plus for each claim from 11 to 20

1,900 HUF

— plus for each claim from 21 to 30

3,800 HUF

— plus for each claim in excess of 30

5,600 HUF

Fee for extension of time limits :

— for the 1st extension

5,300 HUF

— for the second extension

9,350 HUF

— for further extensions

17,600 HUF

National additional fee where certain parts of the international application
have not been searched

half the amount of the national fee where the Office is a designated Office

Patents

Annual fee: 5

— for the 1st to the 3rd year

None

— for the 4th year

per year 88,000 HUF

— for the 5th year

per year 110,000 HUF

— for the 6th to the 12th year

per year 148,500 HUF

— for the 13th to the 16th year

per year 154,000 HUF

— for the 17th to the 18th year

per year 159,500 HUF

— for the 19th to the 20th year

per year 165,000 HUF

Utility models

Annual fee: 6

— for the 1st to the 5th year

21,400 HUF

— for the 6th to the 10th year

per year 32,000 HUF

The annual fee for the 1st year is increased for each page in excess of 6
pages of the description and of the drawings

by 3,500 HUF

Time of payment of the annual fees:

The first annual fee is due on the filing date, fees for the subsequent years
are due on the anniversary of that date

There is a six-month grace period for the payment of all annual fees and the
earliest date for effecting payment is two months preceding the starting date
of the grace period. Fees which become due before publication can be paid
within a six-month grace period counted from the publication date

Surcharge for payment during the grace period:

— during the first three months

none

— during the 4th to the 6th month

50% of the annual fee

Fee for a request for restoration of patent protection ceased due to failure
to pay the annual fee

twice the annual fee for the year in question

How can payment of fees be effected?

All fees shall be payable to the account No. 10032000-01731842-00000000 of the
Hungarian Intellectual Property Office kept with the Hungarian State Treasury
by bank transfer or money order, with the indication of the identifying data
(reference number or the registration number) and the purpose (legal ground).
If the applicant is not resident in Hungary or in one of the member States of
the European Economic Area, he can validly effect payments exclusively through
his agent—patent attorney or attorney-at-law—domiciled in Hungary.

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex HU.II - Declaration of
assignment](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_hu.pdf)

[Annex HU.III - Power of
attorney](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_hu.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  
2 ^ a Even if a corresponding declaration has been made in accordance with PCT
Rule 4.17, the Office may nevertheless require further documents or evidence
(refer toPCT Gazette No. 05/2001, page 2024).  
3 ^ a If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.  
4 ^ a b c Where the applicant is exclusively the inventor on the date of
payment of the fee, one fourth of the amount of fee must be paid, if no
priority of a foreign application was claimed in respect of the application  
5 ^ a In accordance with the provisions of Article 23(1) of Act XXXIII of
1995. For the duration of patent protection an annual renewal fee shall be
paid from the fourth year as defined in the legislation on the administrative
service fees payable in connection with industrial property proceedings. The
fee for the fourth year shall be payable in advance after the end of the third
year following the day of notification, and on the calendar day corresponding
to the date of application thereafter. This new provision entered into force
on 1 June 2022 and shall apply to renewal fees falling due on or after 1 June
2022. The amounts are defined in Article 3(7) of Decree No. 19/2005 (IV.12.)
GKM.  
6 ^ a Where the holder of the right is exclusively the inventor on the date of
payment of the fee, one half of the fee must be paid, if protection is based
on an application in respect of which no priority of a foreign application was
claimed.  

Change(s) as of 18 April 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental Organization

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

All fees shall be payable to the account No. 10032000-01731842-00000000 of the
Hungarian Intellectual Property Office kept with the Hungarian State Treasury
by bank transfer or money order, with the indication of the identifying data
(reference number or the registration number) and the purpose (legal ground).
If the applicant is not resident in Hungary or in one of the member States of
the European Economic Area, he can validly effect payments exclusively through
his agent—patent attorney or attorney-at-law—domiciled in Hungary.

  

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

  

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

  

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

No

  

  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes, the Office permits reinstatement of rights under the "unintentional"
criterion.

Fee for reinstatement (fee for reestablishment of rights)

117,700 HUF

  

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

No

  

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

  

  
Annexes

Fee for a request for reestablishment of rights where the effect of an
international patent application has ceased, in addition to the national fee  
  

117,700 HUF

  

Close

Current version applicable from 18 Apr 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

