####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  
IB - Useful informationIB - International PhaseIB - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationIB - Annex C - Receiving
Office

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide IB - World Intellectual Property Organization  
International Bureau of WIPO

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **1 March 2024**

(published on 1 February 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
RO: RO fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 1 Dec 2023, 1 Jan 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for IB - International Bureau of WIPO)).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: International Bureau of WIPO

List of currencies used in this document:

CHF (Swiss franc), EUR (Euro), USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=IB).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Organization:

World Intellectual Property Organization

Two-letter code:

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

1

Name of Office:

International Bureau of WIPO

Location:

34 chemin des Colombettes  
Geneva  
Switzerland

Mailing address:

P.O. Box 18  
1211 Geneva 20  
Switzerland

Telephone:

(41-22) 338 91 11

For receiving Office purposes only  
(41-22) 338 92 22

PCT Information Service  
(41-22) 338 83 38

E-mail:

PCT Information Service  
pct.infoline@wipo.int

PCT eServices Help Desk  
pct.eservices@wipo.int

For receiving Office purposes only  
ro.ib@wipo.int

Online contact service:

ePCT: <https://pct.wipo.int/ePCT/>

ePCT Business Continuity Service:
<https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/UploadDocument.xhtml>  
(filing of PDF documents as an alternative to fax transmission and where ePCT
is not available)

Website:

<http://www.wipo.int/pct/en/>

Facsimile:

Only limited fax services are available for sending faxes to the International
Bureau, including as receiving Office, in exceptional situations. For further
information, refer to:
<https://www.wipo.int/edocs/pctndocs/en/2019/pct_news_2019_11.pdf>

(41-22) 338 82 70

(41-22) 338 90 90

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by facsimile

Only limited fax services are available for sending faxes to the International
Bureau, including as receiving Office, in exceptional situations. For further
information, refer to:
<https://www.wipo.int/edocs/pctndocs/en/2019/pct_news_2019_11.pdf>

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes, within 14 days from the date of the transmission, if the transmitted
document is the international application or a replacement sheet containing
corrections or amendments of the international application

No, only upon invitation in the case of other documents

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

Yes

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

Does the Office excuse delays in meeting time limits due to the unavailability
of electronic means of communication (PCT Rule 82 _quater_.2(a))?

Yes, the Office, also in its function as receiving Office, excuses delays in
meeting time limits where the ePCT system, with or without strong
authentication, or the PCT Contingency Upload Service was unavailable for a
minimum of a continuous one hour period on a specific working day at the
Office and where the respective action was performed on the next working day
on which the said electronic means of communication were available

For the relevant notification by the Office refer to the Official Notices (PCT
Gazette) dated 16 July 2020, pages 155 _et seq._

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

Yes, the Office is prepared to allow applicants to make international
applications available to the WIPO DAS

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of the following States:

Applicants may file with the IB only if the national security provisions allow
filing of patent applications abroad. Compliance with such provisions is the
applicant’s responsibility and will not be checked by the IB.

All PCT Contracting States (refer to Annex C)

Fees and charges payable to the International Bureau in particular
circumstances:

For further details on the payment of fees refer to the WIPO web site at:  
<http://www.wipo.int/pct/en/fees/special.html>

Early publication, upon request of the applicant, where the international
search report or the declaration under PCT Article 17(2)(a) is not available
for publication with the international application (PCT Rule 48.4(a))

200 CHF

Publication of information concerning a late request to add or correct a
priority claim (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.2(e)) or publication of a refused request
for rectification (PCT Rule 91.3(d))

50 CHF

— for each sheet in excess of one

plus 12 CHF

Copy of the record copy of an international application (PCT Rule 94.1)

35 CHF

— if certified as true copy of the record copy

50 CHF

Certified copy of a published international application

35 CHF

Copy of a priority document (PCT Rule 17.2(c) or 94.1)

35 CHF

— if certified as true copy of the priority document

50 CHF

Copy of a document in the file (other than the record copy, the published
application or the priority document) (PCT Rule 94.1)

5 CHF

per page, plus 2 CHF

— if certified as true copy of the document concerned

plus 15 CHF

Copy, on CD-ROM, of sequence listings contained in published international
applications or priority documents, produced upon request of a third party

35 CHF

plus shipping costs

Transmitting to a designated Office a copy of an international application,
upon request of the applicant (PCT Rule 31.1(b))

35 CHF

Supplement for airmail

10 CHF

Supplementary search fees:

Applicants may file with the International Bureau only if the national
security provisions allow filing of patent applications abroad. Compliance
with such provisions is the applicant’s responsibility and will not be checked
by the International Bureau

The International Bureau shall refund this fee where the supplementary search
request has not yet been transmitted to the Authority specified for
supplementary search and the international application is withdrawn or
considered withdrawn, or the supplementary search request is withdrawn or
considered not to have been submitted (refer to PCT Rule 45 _bis_.3(d))

Supplementary search fee (PCT Rule 45 _bis_.3):

Refer to  
Annex SISA(AT)  
Annex SISA(EP)  
Annex SISA(FI)  
Annex SISA(RU)  
Annex SISA(SE)  
Annex SISA(SG)  
Annex SISA(TR)  
Annex SISA(UA)  
Annex SISA(XN)  
Annex SISA(XV)

Supplementary search handling fee (PCT Rule 45 _bis_.2):

200 CHF

Late payment fee (PCT Rule 45 _bis_.4(c)):

100 CHF

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent or a common
representative who was not indicated in the request form at the time of filing

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Not applicable

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Not applicable

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Applicants may file with the International Bureau only if the national
security provisions allow filing of patent applications abroad. Compliance
with such provisions is the applicant’s responsibility and will not be checked
by the International Bureau

All PCT Contracting States

The International Bureau is the only receiving Office for the following
Contracting States: Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Dominica,
Guatemala, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Madagascar, Nigeria,
Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Sri Lanka and United Arab
Emirates

Language in which international applications may be filed:

Any language

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3). If the language
in which the international application is filed is not a language of
publication and no translation is required for the purposes of international
search (PCT Rule 12.3(a)), the applicant will have to furnish a translation of
the application into one of the languages of publication (PCT Rule 12.4(a))

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Any language; or English and any other language

Language in which the request may be filed:

Any language of publication

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”). Where the
international application contains a sequence listing as a separate part of
the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C of the
Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard ST.26
XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

In case of failure of electronic systems when an international application is
to be filed with the International Bureau as receiving Office, the applicant
may use the ePCT Business Continuity Service
<https://pctcs.wipo.int/ePCTFiling/>, submit documents on physical media (CD-R
or DVD-R), or use a different receiving Office. For the relevant notification
by the International Bureau acting as receiving Office, refer to the Official
Notices (PCT Gazette) dated 11 February 2021, pages 23 _et seq._ and 16
November 2023, page 215.

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing or EPO Online Filing

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies both the “unintentional” and the “due care” criteria
to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

Any International Searching Authority(ies) which would have been competent if
the international application had been filed with any other receiving Office
of, or acting for, the PCT Contracting State of which the applicant (or, if
there is more than one applicant, at least one of the applicants) is a
national or resident (refer to Annexes B for such other competent receiving
Offices, Annex C for the corresponding competent International Searching
Authorities, and below for the States for which the International Bureau acts
instead of their national Offices pursuant to PCT Rule 19.1(b))

Where the applicant is a national or a resident of the United States of
America, the availability of the European Patent Office as an International
Searching Authority and/or International Preliminary Examining Authority is
restricted. The limitation criteria also apply to applications filed by two or
more applicants when at least one of them is a national or resident of the
United States of America, and when none of them are nationals or residents of
a Contracting State of the European Patent Convention. For details, refer to
Annexes D(EP) and E(EP)

Where the applicant is a national or a resident of the United States of
America, the Australian Patent Office may be chosen as the competent
International Searching Authority and/or International Preliminary Examining
Authority for certain international applications only. For further details
concerning which international applications this is restricted to, refer to
Official Notices (PCT Gazette) dated 23 October 2008, pages 131 _et seq._

For nationals and residents of Angola:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[BR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BR&doc-lang=EN)

Brazil - National Institute of Industrial Property (Brazil)

,

[CN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CN&doc-lang=EN)

China - China National Intellectual Property Administration (CNIPA)

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

For nationals and residents of Antigua and Barbuda:

[CA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CA&doc-lang=EN)

Canada - Canadian Intellectual Property Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

For nationals and residents of Barbados:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[SE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SE&doc-lang=EN)

Sweden - Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV)

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

For nationals and residents of Dominica:

[CA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CA&doc-lang=EN)

Canada - Canadian Intellectual Property Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

For nationals and residents of Guatemala:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[BR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BR&doc-lang=EN)

Brazil - National Institute of Industrial Property (Brazil)

,

[CL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CL&doc-lang=EN)

Chile - National Institute of Industrial Property (Chile)

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[ES](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ES&doc-lang=EN)

Spain - Spanish Patent and Trademark Office

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

For nationals and residents of Kuwait:

[EG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EG&doc-lang=EN)

Egypt - Egyptian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

For nationals and residents of Lao People’s Democratic Republic:

[CN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CN&doc-lang=EN)

China - China National Intellectual Property Administration (CNIPA)

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[JP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JP&doc-lang=EN)

Japan - Japan Patent Office (JPO)

,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

For nationals and residents of Madagascar:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

,

[SE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SE&doc-lang=EN)

Sweden - Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV)

For nationals and residents of Nigeria:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[CA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CA&doc-lang=EN)

Canada - Canadian Intellectual Property Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

For nationals and residents of Saint Lucia:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

For nationals and residents of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[CA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CA&doc-lang=EN)

Canada - Canadian Intellectual Property Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

For nationals and residents of Sri Lanka:

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[SE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SE&doc-lang=EN)

Sweden - Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV)

For nationals and residents of the United Arab Emirates:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

Any International Preliminary Examining Authority(ies) which would have been
competent if the international application had been filed with any other
receiving Office of, or acting for, the PCT Contracting State of which the
applicant (or, if there is more than one applicant, at least one of the
applicants) is a national or resident (refer to Annexes B for such other
competent receiving Offices, Annex C for the corresponding competent
International Preliminary Examining Authorities, and below for the States for
which the International Bureau acts instead of their national Offices pursuant
to PCT Rule 19.1(b))

Where the applicant is a national or a resident of the United States of
America, the availability of the European Patent Office as an International
Searching Authority and/or International Preliminary Examining Authority is
restricted. The limitation criteria also apply to applications filed by two or
more applicants when at least one of them is a national or resident of the
United States of America, and when none of them are nationals or residents of
a Contracting State of the European Patent Convention. For details, refer to
Annexes D(EP) and E(EP)

Where the applicant is a national or a resident of the United States of
America, the Australian Patent Office may be chosen as the competent
International Searching Authority and/or International Preliminary Examining
Authority for certain international applications only. For further details
concerning which international applications this is restricted to, refer to
Official Notices (PCT Gazette) dated 23 October 2008, pages 131 _et seq._

For nationals and residents of Angola:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[BR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BR&doc-lang=EN)

Brazil - National Institute of Industrial Property (Brazil)

,

[CN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CN&doc-lang=EN)

China - China National Intellectual Property Administration (CNIPA)

2,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

3

For nationals and residents of Antigua and Barbuda:

[CA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CA&doc-lang=EN)

Canada - Canadian Intellectual Property Office

2,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

2

For nationals and residents of Barbados:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

4,

[SE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SE&doc-lang=EN)

Sweden - Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV)

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

2

For nationals and residents of Dominica:

[CA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CA&doc-lang=EN)

Canada - Canadian Intellectual Property Office

2,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

2

For nationals and residents of Guatemala:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[BR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BR&doc-lang=EN)

Brazil - National Institute of Industrial Property (Brazil)

,

[CL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CL&doc-lang=EN)

Chile - National Institute of Industrial Property (Chile)

2,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

5,

[ES](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ES&doc-lang=EN)

Spain - Spanish Patent and Trademark Office

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

2

For nationals and residents of Kuwait:

[EG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EG&doc-lang=EN)

Egypt - Egyptian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

2

For nationals and residents of Lao People’s Democratic Republic:

[CN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CN&doc-lang=EN)

China - China National Intellectual Property Administration (CNIPA)

2,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

2,

[JP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JP&doc-lang=EN)

Japan - Japan Patent Office (JPO)

2,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

2

For nationals and residents of Madagascar:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

4,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

,

[SE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SE&doc-lang=EN)

Sweden - Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV)

For nationals and residents of Nigeria:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[CA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CA&doc-lang=EN)

Canada - Canadian Intellectual Property Office

2,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

2

For nationals and residents of Saint Lucia:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

3,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

2

For nationals and residents of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines:

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[CA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CA&doc-lang=EN)

Canada - Canadian Intellectual Property Office

2,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

2,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

2

For nationals and residents of Sri Lanka:

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

6,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[SE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SE&doc-lang=EN)

Sweden - Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV)

For nationals and residents of the United Arab Emirates:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

For further details on the payment of fees refer to the WIPO web site at:
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/fees/index.html#_methods>

Transmittal fee:

100 CHF

104 EUR

117 USD

Applicants who qualify for the 90% reduction of the international filing fee
(refer to endnote 7) do not have to pay the transmittal fee

International filing fee: 7

1,330 CHF

1,381 EUR

1,562 USD

Fee per sheet in excess of 30: 7

15 CHF

16 EUR

18 USD

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”). Where the
international application contains a sequence listing as a separate part of
the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C of the
Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard ST.26
XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request not being in character coded format):

100 CHF

104 EUR

117 USD

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

200 CHF

208 EUR

235 USD

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

300 CHF

311 EUR

352 USD

Search fee:

For the amounts, refer to Annex D corresponding to International Searching
Authority chosen by applicant

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

No fee is due where the priority document is established, in accordance with
Rule 17.1(b), for the purposes of an international application nor where the
Office is requested to make priority documents available via the WIPO Digital
Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (refer to Annex B).

50 CHF

52 EUR

59 USD

— Supplement for airmail:

10 CHF

10 EUR

12 USD

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

None

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No

Who can act as agent?

Any person who has the right to practice before the national Office of, or
acting for, a Contracting State of which the applicant or, if there are two or
more applicants, any of the applicants is a resident or national, or, where
the International Bureau acts as receiving Office pursuant to PCT Rule
19.1(b), any natural or legal person

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent or a common
representative who was not indicated on the request form at the time of filing

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent or a common
representative who was not indicated on the request form at the time of filing

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a This code is used where the International Bureau acts as receiving
Office (refer to Annex C). (Code “WO” is used for the purposes of
international publication under the PCT.)  
2 ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s The Office is competent only if the
international search is or has been carried out by that Office.  
3 ^ a b The Office is competent only if the international search is or has
been carried out by that Office or the Austrian Patent Office.  
4 ^ a b The Office is competent only if the international search is or has
been carried out by that Office, the Austrian Patent Office or the Swedish
Intellectual Property Office (PRV).  
5 ^ a This Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office, the Austrian Patent Office or the Spanish Patent
and Trademark Office.  
6 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office or the Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV).  
7 ^ a b This fee is reduced by 90% if the international application is filed
by:  
(a) an applicant who is a natural person and who is a national of and resides
in a State whose per capita gross domestic product is below 25,000 USD
(according to the most recent 10-year average per capita gross domestic
product figures at constant 2005 US dollar values published by the United
Nations), and whose nationals and residents who are natural persons have filed
less than 10 international applications per year (per million population) or
less than 50 international applications per year (in absolute numbers)
according to the most recent five-year average yearly filing figures published
by the International Bureau; or  
(b) an applicant, whether a natural person or not, who is a national of and
resides in a State that is listed as being classified by the United Nations as
a least developed country;  
provided that, if there are several applicants, each must satisfy the criteria
set out in either sub-item (a) or (b).  
For further details of the applicability of the 90% reduction, refer to
<https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/fees/> and Official Notices (PCT Gazette) dated 5
March 2020, pages 45 _et seq._ , Schedule of Fees, item 5. It is to be noted
that, if both the electronic filing reduction and the 90% reduction of the
international filing fee are applicable, the 90% reduction is calculated after
the electronic filing reduction.  

Change(s) as of 1 March 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

Transmittal fee:

100 CHF

104 EUR

117 USD

Applicants who qualify for the 90% reduction of the international filing fee
(refer to endnote 7) do not have to pay the transmittal fee

  

International filing fee:

1,330 CHF

1,381 EUR

1,562 USD

  

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

15 CHF

16 EUR

18 USD

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”). Where the
international application contains a sequence listing as a separate part of
the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C of the
Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard ST.26
XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

  

Electronic filing (the request not being in character coded format):

100 CHF

104 EUR

117 USD

  

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

200 CHF

208 EUR

235 USD

  

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

300 CHF

311 EUR

352 USD

  

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

No fee is due where the priority document is established, in accordance with
Rule 17.1(b), for the purposes of an international application nor where the
Office is requested to make priority documents available via the WIPO Digital
Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (refer to Annex B).

50 CHF

52 EUR

59 USD

  

— Supplement for airmail:

10 CHF

10 EUR

12 USD

  

Close

Current version applicable from 1 Mar 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

