####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
ID - Useful informationID - International PhaseID - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationID - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeID - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialID - National PhaseID - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseID - The procedure in the national PhaseID - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide ID - Indonesia  
Directorate General of Intellectual Property (Indonesia)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **15 September 2023**

(published on 15 September 2023)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
From now on, you will find here a summary of changes to each new version of
the PCT Applicant's Guide, as well as the detailed list of these changes.
Moreover, you can now easily access the historical versions of the Guide.  
  
RO: Languages, Electronic filing  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for ID - Directorate General of Intellectual Property \(Indonesia\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Directorate General of Intellectual Property (Indonesia)

PL: Indonesian Patent Law

GR: Government Regulations of the Republic of Indonesia concerning Procedure
for Patent Application

List of currencies used in this document:

CHF (Swiss franc), IDR (Indonesian rupiah)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=ID).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Article 64(5), Rule 20.8(a), Rule 20.8(a-_bis_), Rule 20.8(b) , Rule
20.8(b-_bis_), Rule 26 _bis_.3(j), Rule 49 _ter_.1(g), Rule 49 _ter_.2(h)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).  
PCT Rule 20.8(a-_bis_), The Offices (in their capacity as receiving Offices)
of the States listed in this table have notified the International Bureau (IB)
that new PCT Rules 20.5 _bis_(a)(ii) and 20.5 _bis_(d), are not compatible
and/or cannot be considered to be compatible with the national law applied by
the Office, or are deemed to have notified the IB of this incompatibility on
the basis of a notification made under PCT Rule 20.8(a) that remains in
effect.  
PCT Rule 20.8(b-_bis_), The Offices (in their capacity as designated Offices)
of the States listed in this table have notified the International Bureau (IB)
that PCT Rules 20.5 _bis_(a)(ii) and 20.5 _bis_(d), are not compatible and/or
cannot be considered to be compatible with the national law applied by the
Office, or are deemed to have notified the IB of this incompatibility on the
basis of a notification made under PCT Rule 20.8(b) that remains in effect.

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Indonesia

Two-letter code:

[ID](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ID&doc-lang=EN)

Indonesia - Directorate General of Intellectual Property (Indonesia)

Name of Office:

Directorate General of Intellectual Property (Indonesia)

Location:

Jl. H.R. Rasuna Said Kav. 8-9  
Jakarta Selatan 12940  
Indonesia

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

Patents:  
(62-21) 5790 5611  
Sec.:  
(62-21) 5790 5619

E-mail:

patent.administration@gmail.com

Website:

<http://www.dgip.go.id>

Facsimile:

None

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

provided that the delivery service is:  
CV Titipan Kilat  
DHL  
Elteha  
Federal Express  
UPS

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[ID](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ID&doc-lang=EN)

Indonesia - Directorate General of Intellectual Property (Indonesia)

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[ID](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ID&doc-lang=EN)

Indonesia - Directorate General of Intellectual Property (Indonesia)

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Patents

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished later. If not already complied with
within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)(a), the Office
will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit
fixed in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Indonesia

Language in which international applications may be filed:

English

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

The Office has not specifically notified the International Bureau of the
language that it accepts under PCT Rule 12.1(d).

Same as above

Language in which the request may be filed:

English

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 14 January 2016, pages 11 _et seq._

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C
of the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
If the receiving Office does not accept international applications in
electronic form in such format, the international application will be
transmitted to the International Bureau as receiving Office (PCT Rule
19.4(a)(ii-_bis_)).

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

No

Competent International Searching Authority:

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[JP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JP&doc-lang=EN)

Japan - Japan Patent Office (JPO)

,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

,

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

1,

[JP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JP&doc-lang=EN)

Japan - Japan Patent Office (JPO)

1,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

,

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

1

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

1,000,000 IDR

International filing fee:

Equivalent in IDR of 1,330 CHF

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

Equivalent in IDR of 15 CHF

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

Equivalent in IDR of 200 CHF

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

Equivalent in IDR of 300 CHF

Search fee:

Equivalent in IDR of the search fee payable to the International Searching
Authority chosen by the applicant:  
Refer to  
Annex D(AU)  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(JP)  
Annex D(KR)  
Annex D(RU)  
Annex D(SG)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

300,000 IDR

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Indonesia  
Yes, if the applicant is non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any patent consultant registered in Indonesia

Waiver of power of attorney:

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Refer to the Office

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Refer to the Office

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

None

— any additional indications:

None

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, a description of the characteristics
of the micro-organism

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

This time limit may be extended provided the applicant pays an additional fee
for late entry into the national phase

Under PCT Article 22(3): 31 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Indonesian

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Where the applicant furnishes only one translation and does not furnish the
missing translation upon invitation by the office, the latter will proceed
upon the basis of the translation of the international application as
originally filed or as amended, as the case may be

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article 19 ), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Filing fee

electronic 1,250,000 IDR

on paper 1,500,000 IDR

Additional filing fee

— for each page of the description in excess of 30

15,000 IDR

Claim fee for each claim in excess of 10

75,000 IDR

Substantive examination fee

3,000,000 IDR

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in Indonesia

Instrument of assignment of the international application if the applicant has
changed after the international filing date

Document evidencing a change of name of the applicant if the change occurred
after the international filing date and has not been reflected in a
notification from the International Bureau (Form PCT/IB/306)

Translation of the international application to be furnished in three copies 2

Who can act as agent?

Any person registered to practice as a patent consultant in Indonesia

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

No

##  The procedure in the national Phase

ID.01 FORMS FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

The Office has available a special form for entering the national phase (refer
to Annex ID.II). The form should preferably (but need not) be used. It is
strongly recommended that the national phase application be filed through the
Office’s online system at: <http://paten.dgip.go.id/#/login>

ID.02 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

ID.03 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex ID.I.

ID.04 INVENTOR

PL Art. 25  
The indication of the name and nationality of the inventor is required and
must be furnished, at the latest, at the time of entry into the national
phase.

ID.05 REQUEST FOR EXAMINATION

PL Art. 51  
The Office examines patent applications as to substance. The applicant must
request substantive examination on a special form (refer to Annex ID.III) no
later than 36 months from the international filing date and pay a special fee
(refer to Annex ID.I).

ID.06 POWER OF ATTORNEY

GR Art. 2(3),  GR Art.3  
An agent must be appointed by means of a separate power of attorney.

ID.07 PRIORITY DOCUMENT (TRANSLATION)

The Office requires a translation of the priority document in English but only
if needed during national examination or other processing. If the required
translation is not furnished, the Office will invite the applicant to furnish
it within two months from the date of the invitation. The translation need
neither be certified nor verified.

ID.08 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  PL Art. 38-39  
The applicant may amend or correct the claims, description, and drawings in
the international application at any time before the grant of the patent
provided that the scope of protection of the application is not extended
thereby.

ID.09 ANNUAL FEES

PL Art. 126,  PL Art. 127,  PL Art. 128,  PL Art. 129  
The first payment of the annual fees must be made before the expiration of six
months as of the date the patent is granted. The first payment of the annual
fees includes annual fees for the first year as from the international filing
date of the application until and including the year the patent was granted
plus the annual fee for the following year. Each subsequent payment of the
annual fees should be made in the relevant subsequent year no later than one
month before the date having the same number as the month and the day on which
the patent was filed. If the annual fee has not been paid within the
applicable time limit, the patent will be declared null and void. Annual fees
may be paid within a grace period of 12 months from the expiration of the
deadline for paying the fees, upon a written request for extension of the time
limit and payment of the prescribed surcharge fee for late payment (refer to
Annex ID.I). A request for extension of the time limit must be submitted to
the Office not later than seven days before the expiration of the time limit
for paying the fees.

ID.10 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2),  PCT Rule 82 _bis_  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.

ID.11 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  Rule 51  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. If, upon review under PCT Article 25, the Office denies an
error or omission on the part of the receiving Office or the International
Bureau, an appeal against the decision may be lodged with the national IP
Office.

ID.12 APPEALS

PL Art. 67,  PL Art. 68,  PL Art. 69,  PL Art. 70,  PL Art. 71,  PL Art. 72,
PL Art. 73  
An appeal may be filed:

a) against refusal of a patent application,

b) to correct the description, claims, and/or drawings after the grant of a
patent,

c) against a decision to grant a patent.

An appeal shall be filed in writing to the Patent Appeal Commission, with a
copy to the Patent Office, and is subject to the payment of a fee (refer to
Annex ID.I). An appeal against a refusal of the application shall be filed not
later than three months as of the mailing date of the notification of refusal
of the patent application. An appeal to correct the description, claims,
and/or drawings after the grant of a patent shall be filed within three months
as of the mailing date of the notification of intention to grant a patent.

Corrections must be limited to the following:

a) limitation on the scope of claims,

b) corrections of errors in the translation of the description, and/or

c) clarification of the contents of the description that is unclear or
ambiguous.

Corrections may not result in a wider scope of protection of the invention
than the scope of protection of the invention as originally filed. An appeal
against the decision to grant a patent shall be filed not later than nine
months from the date of the notification to grant a patent. If the appeal
against a decision to grant a patent has not been made within the applicable
period, an applicant may appeal by filing a lawsuit to the Commercial Court.

##  Annexes

Annex ID.I - Fees

Filing fee

electronic 1,250,000 IDR

on paper 1,500,000 IDR

Additional filing fee

— for each page of the description in excess of 30

15,000 IDR

Substantive examination fee

3,000,000 IDR

Additional fee for each claim in excess of 10

75,000 IDR

Change in type of patent application

450,000 IDR

Fee for recordation of assignment of patent

700,000 IDR

Appeal fee:

— refusal of the application

3,000,000 IDR

— correction of the description, claims and/or drawings after the patent
application has been granted

3,000,000 IDR

— decision on granting a patent

3,000,000 IDR

Additional fee for late entry into national phase

5,000,000 IDR

Annual fees:

— from the 1st to the 3rd year, per year

Basic fee 1,000,000 IDR

Additional fee for each claim 75,000 IDR

— from the 4th year to the 5th year, per year

Basic fee 1,250,000 IDR

Additional fee for each claim 100,000 IDR

— for the 6th year, per year

Basic fee 1,750,000 IDR

Additional fee for each claim 175,000 IDR

— from the 7th year to the 8th year, per year

Basic fee 2,250,000 IDR

Additional fee for each claim 225,000 IDR

— for the 9th year, per year

Basic fee 3,000,000 IDR

Additional fee for each claim 300,000 IDR

— for the 10th year, per year

Basic fee 4,000,000 IDR

Additional fee for each claim 300,000 IDR

— from the 11th year to the 20th year, per year

Basic fee 6,500,000 IDR

Additional fee for each claim 500,000 IDR

Fee for late payment of the annual fee

100% of the applicable annual fee

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of fees must be effected in Indonesian rupiah. Payments can be
made by money order, cheque or bank draft (transfer to Government account).
All payments must indicate the application number (national if already known;
international if the national number is not yet known), the name of the
applicant and the category of fee being paid.

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex ID.II - Form for entering the national
phase](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_id.pdf)

[Annex ID.III - Patent substantive examination application
form](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_id.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a b c The Office is competent only if the international search is or has
been carried out by that Office.  
2 ^ a Where the application is filed electronically, only one copy of the
translation in electronic form has to be furnished.  

Change(s) as of 15 September 2023 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference.
Mouse hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

The Office has not specifically notified the International Bureau of the
language that it accepts under PCT Rule 12.1(d).

Same as above

  

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 14 January 2016, pages 11 _et seq._

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C
of the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
If the receiving Office does not accept international applications in
electronic form in such format, the international application will be
transmitted to the International Bureau as receiving Office (PCT Rule
19.4(a)(ii-_bis_)).

  

Close

Current version applicable from 15 Sep 2023 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

