####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  
IE - Useful informationIE - International PhaseIE - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationIE - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeIE - National Phase

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide IE - Ireland  
Intellectual Property Office of Ireland

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **1 January 2024**

(published on 1 December 2023)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
RO: RO fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for IE - Intellectual Property Office of Ireland)).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Intellectual Property Office of Ireland

List of currencies used in this document:

EUR (Euro)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=IE).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Ireland

Two-letter code:

[IE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IE&doc-lang=EN)

Ireland - Intellectual Property Office of Ireland

Name of Office:

Intellectual Property Office of Ireland

Location:

Government Offices  
Hebron Road  
Kilkenny  
R95 H4XC  
Ireland

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(353-56) 772 01 11

E-mail:

ipinfo@ipoi.gov.ie

Website:

<http://www.ipoi.gov.ie>

Facsimile:

(353-56) 772 01 00

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

Yes

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[IE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IE&doc-lang=EN)

Ireland - Intellectual Property Office of Ireland

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Types of protection available via the PCT:

European patents

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

Designation for the purposes of a European patent:

(1) International application published in one of the EPO official languages:
compensation reasonable in the circumstances, on con-dition that any national
requirements relating to the translation of the claims in the application have
been met.

(2) International application published in a language which is not an EPO
official language: the protection referred to in (1) does not become effective
until the EPO publishes the international applica-tion supplied to it in one
of its official languages.

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

No

For a European patent 1

Refer to [Annex B(EP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=ep&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Ireland

Language in which international applications may be filed:

English

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Same as above

Language in which the request may be filed:

English

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

3

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notifications by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 11 July 2019, pages 105 _et seq._ and 21 July 2022, page
187.

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies both the “unintentional” and the “due care” criteria
to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

76 EUR

International filing fee:

1,381 EUR

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

16 EUR

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 11 July 2019, pages 105 _et seq._

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

208 EUR

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

311 EUR

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EP)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

for the certified copy 3.00 EUR  
per page, plus 0.60 EUR

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

Please refer to the Office

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Ireland  
Yes, if the applicant is non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any person registered in the Register of Patent Agents kept at the Office

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Not applicable

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Not applicable

##  National Phase

The Office closed the national route

Refer to [National Chapter(EP)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-
doc.xhtml?doc-code=ep&doc-lang=en)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a Applicants of an international application designating Ireland for a
European patent may request the Controller, within 31 months from the priority
date, that the international application be treated as an application for a
patent in Ireland under Part II of the Patents Act 1992 (refer to Section 127A
of the Patents Act, 1992 enacted by the Copyright and Other Intellectual
Property Law Provisions Act 2019, effective from 2 December 2019 and Rule 87A
of the Patents (Amendment) Rules 2019, S.I. 589/2019).  

Change(s) as of 1 January 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

International filing fee:

1,381 EUR

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

208 EUR

  

Close

Current version applicable from 1 Jan 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

