####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
IR - Useful informationIR - International PhaseIR - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationIR - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeIR - National PhaseIR - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseIR - The procedure in the national PhaseIR - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide IR - Iran (Islamic Republic of)  
Intellectual Property Center (Islamic Republic of Iran)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **15 September 2023**

(published on 15 September 2023)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
From now on, you will find here a summary of changes to each new version of
the PCT Applicant's Guide, as well as the detailed list of these changes.
Moreover, you can now easily access the historical versions of the Guide.  
  
RO: Languages, Electronic filing  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for IR - Intellectual Property Center \(Islamic Republic of Iran\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Intellectual Property Center (Islamic Republic of Iran)

PA: Patents, Industrial Designs and Trademarks Registration Act, 2008

PR: Executive Regulations of the Patents, Industrial Designs and Trademarks
Registration Act, 2009

List of currencies used in this document:

CHF (Swiss franc), EUR (Euro), IRR (Iranian rial), USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=IR).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Thursday and Friday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Iran (Islamic Republic of)

Two-letter code:

[IR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IR&doc-lang=EN)

Iran (Islamic Republic of) - Intellectual Property Center (Islamic Republic of
Iran)

Name of Office:

Intellectual Property Center (Islamic Republic of Iran)

Location:

3 Phayazbakhsh Str.  
Khayam Str.  
Imam Khomeini Square  
Tehran 11146-78111  
Islamic Republic of Iran

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(98-21) 6674 1035

E-mail:

irpct@ssaa.ir

Website:

<http://iripo.ssaa.ir/>

Facsimile:

(98-21) 6670 0867

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[IR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IR&doc-lang=EN)

Iran (Islamic Republic of) - Intellectual Property Center (Islamic Republic of
Iran)

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[IR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IR&doc-lang=EN)

Iran (Islamic Republic of) - Intellectual Property Center (Islamic Republic of
Iran)

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Patents

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished within the time limit applicable
under PCT Article 22 or 39(1).

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

No

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Iran (Islamic Republic of)

Language in which international applications may be filed:

English

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

The Office has not specifically notified the International Bureau of the
language that it accepts under PCT Rule 12.1(d).

Same as above

Language in which the request may be filed:

English

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 21 April 2016, pages 81 _et seq._

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
If the receiving Office does not accept international applications in
electronic form in such format, the international application will be
transmitted to the International Bureau as receiving Office (PCT Rule
19.4(a)(ii-_bis_)).

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, please refer to the Office for the applicable criteria and/or any fee
payable for such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[CN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CN&doc-lang=EN)

China - China National Intellectual Property Administration (CNIPA)

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[IN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IN&doc-lang=EN)

India - Indian Patent Office

,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[CN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CN&doc-lang=EN)

China - China National Intellectual Property Administration (CNIPA)

1,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

1,

[IN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IN&doc-lang=EN)

India - Indian Patent Office

,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

for natural persons 50,000 IRR  
for legal persons 500,000 IRR

International filing fee:

Equivalent in IRR of 1,330 CHF

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

Equivalent in IRR of 15 CHF

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 21 April 2016, pages 81 _et seq._

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

Equivalent in IRR of 200 CHF

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

Equivalent in IRR of 300 CHF

Search fee:

Equivalent in IRR of the search fee payable to the International Searching
Authority chosen by the applicant:  
Refer to  
Annex D(CN)  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(IN)  
Annex D(RU)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

Please refer to the Office

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

Please refer to the Office

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in the Islamic Republic of Iran  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any agent authorized to practice before the Office

A list of registered agents may be obtained from the Office

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Not applicable

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Not applicable

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Farsi

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

The applicant should only send a copy of the international application if
he/she has not received Form PCT/IB/308 and the Office has not received a copy
of the international application from the International Bureau under PCT
Article 20. This may be the case where the applicant expressly requests an
earlier start of the national phase under PCT Article 23(2).

National fees:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Filing fee

100,000 IRR

in case of filing by a natural person (10,000 IRR)

or equivalent in EUR or USD 2

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

Reductions of the national fee are indicated above and in Annex IR.I.

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application 3 4

Declaration as to the applicant’s entitlement to apply for and be granted a
patent 3 4

Document evidencing a change of name of the applicant if the change occurred
after the international filing date and has not been reflected in a
notification from the International Bureau (Form PCT/IB/306) 3

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not a resident of the Islamic
Republic of Iran 3

Instrument appointing the agent (authorization or power of attorney)

Translation of the international application to be furnished in three copies

Who can act as agent?

Any agent authorized to practice before the Office

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

IR.01 LANGUAGE OF PROCEEDINGS

PA Art. 6,  PR Art. 3  
The language of proceedings is Farsi.

IR.02 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as originally
filed (refer to National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

IR.03 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

PR Art. 6(8)  
The applicant must attach the receipt showing payment of the national fee to
his application. The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary
and in this Chapter is outlined in Annex IR.I.

IR.04 LACK OF UNITY OF INVENTION

PR Art. 8  
In case of lack of unity of invention, the applicant shall file divisional
applications in respect of the additional inventions claimed in the
international application and pay filing fees for each divisional application.

IR.05 ANNUAL FEES

PR Art. 66  
Annual fees are payable two months prior to the first anniversary of entry
into the national phase and each subsequent year thereafter. If an annual fee
is not paid within the prescribed time limit, the patent will cease to have
effect. The amounts of the annual fees are indicated in Annex IR.I.

IR.06 APPOINTMENT OF AN AGENT

PA Art. 51  
If the applicant does not reside in the Islamic Republic of Iran, an agent
shall be appointed by filing a legalized power of attorney, signed by the
applicant.

IR.07 EXAMINATION

PR Art. 28  
A patent will be granted only after examination. Examination takes place
within six months of entry into the national phase.

IR.08 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION

PA Art. 8(a)  
The applicant may, at any time before the patent is granted, make amendments
to his application, provided that the amendment does not go beyond the
original disclosure. The amount of the fee for amendment is indicated in Annex
IR.I.

IR.09 FEE FOR GRANT

PA Art. 14(c)  
The Office shall provide the original Letters Patent to the applicant after
the fee for grant has been paid.

IR.10 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2),  PCT Rule 82 _bis_  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.

IR.11 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase.

IR.12 REINSTATEMENT OF RIGHTS

PCT Rule 49.6  
Reinstatement of rights may be requested where the applicant, in spite of due
care required by the circumstances having been taken, failed to perform the
acts referred to in Article 22 within the applicable time limit. A request for
reinstatement must be presented in writing within two months from the removal
of the cause of the failure to observe the time limit, or 12 months from the
date of expiration of the applicable time limit, whichever time limit expires
earlier. Within the said time limit, the omitted action must be completed and
the fee for reinstatement of rights must be paid.

IR.13 RESTORATION OF THE RIGHT OF PRIORITY

PCT Rule 49 _ter_.2  
Where the international application was filed within two months from the end
of the period for claiming priority of an earlier application, a request for
restoration of the right of priority may be made to the Office in accordance
with the national law (refer to National Phase, paragraphs 6.006 to 6.011).
Such a request will be allowed if the Office is satisfied that the failure to
file the application within the 12-month priority period occurred in spite of
due care required by the circumstances. The time limit for filing the request
is one month from the date of entry into the national phase.

A declaration or other evidence in support of a request for restoration of the
right of priority should be filed within the time limit set out in PCT Rule 49
_ter_.2(b)(i).

##  Annexes

Annex IR.I - Fees

For non-residents of the Islamic Republic of Iran, payment should be effected
in euro or US dollar

Filing fee

100,000 IRR

in case of filing by a natural person (10,000 IRR)

Fee for amendment

500,000 IRR

in case of filing by a natural person (50,000 IRR)

Grant fee

150,000 IRR

in case of filing by a natural person (15,000 IRR)

Annual fees:

— from the 1st to the 5th year, per year

1,000,000 IRR

in case of filing by a natural person (100,000 IRR)

— from the 6th to the 10th year, per year

2,000,000 IRR

in case of filing by a natural person (200,000 IRR)

— from the 11th to the 15th year, per year

3,000,000 IRR

in case of filing by a natural person (300,000 IRR)

— from the 16th to the 20th year, per year

4,000,000 IRR

in case of filing by a natural person (400,000 IRR)

Surcharge for the late payment of annual fees

50% of the amount due

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of fees should be effected in Iranian rial or the equivalent in
euro or US dollar. All payments must indicate the application number
(national, if already known; international, if the national application number
is not yet known), the name of the applicant and the type of fee being paid.  
Payments by bank transfer should be made to the following bank:

Bank Melli Iran  
Argentin Square  
Bucharest Street, Ninth Alley  
Armita Towers, Branch of Armita Towers, Code 1033  
Tehran, Iran

Bank Account No.  
2103310000042

Forms

Please refer to the Office.

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a b The Office is competent only if the international search is or has
been carried out by that Office.  
2 ^ a For non-residents of the Islamic Republic of Iran, payment should be
effected in euro or US dollar.  
3 ^ a b c d If not already complied with within the time limit applicable
under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply
with the requirement within a time limit of 60 days from the date of receipt
of the invitation.  
4 ^ a b This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  

Change(s) as of 15 September 2023 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference.
Mouse hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

The Office has not specifically notified the International Bureau of the
language that it accepts under PCT Rule 12.1(d).

Same as above

  

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 21 April 2016, pages 81 _et seq._

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
If the receiving Office does not accept international applications in
electronic form in such format, the international application will be
transmitted to the International Bureau as receiving Office (PCT Rule
19.4(a)(ii-_bis_)).

  

Close

Current version applicable from 15 Sep 2023 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

