####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
IS - Useful informationIS - International PhaseIS - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationIS - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeIS - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialIS - National PhaseIS - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseIS - The procedure in the national PhaseIS - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide IS - Iceland  
Icelandic Intellectual Property Office (ISIPO)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **11 April 2024**

(published on 11 April 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
GENERAL INFO: Payment methods  
RO: Electronic filing, Incorporation by reference  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase: National phase,
Restoration of the right of priority, Reinstatement of rights  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Jan 2024, 1 Mar 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for IS - Icelandic Intellectual Property Office \(ISIPO\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Icelandic Intellectual Property Office (ISIPO)

IPL: Patents Act (Iceland)

IPR: Regulation Concerning Patent Applications, etc

List of currencies used in this document:

ISK (Icelandic krona)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=IS).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Iceland

Two-letter code:

[IS](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IS&doc-lang=EN)

Iceland - Icelandic Intellectual Property Office (ISIPO)

Name of Office:

Icelandic Intellectual Property Office (ISIPO)

Location:

Katrínartún 4  
IS-105 Reykjavík  
Iceland

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(354) 580 94 00

E-mail:

hugverk@hugverk.is  
isipo@isipo.is

Website:

<http://www.hugverk.is>  
<http://www.isipo.is>

Facsimile:

None

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by e-mail

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

No

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

Yes

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes, provided that the delivery service is:  
DHL  
TNT  
other express delivery company which provides a proof of receipt

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[IS](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IS&doc-lang=EN)

Iceland - Icelandic Intellectual Property Office (ISIPO)

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: IS

European patent: EP

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents

European:

Patents

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

Fees can be paid in cash or check to the Office, or to the Office’s bank
account

Name of bank  
Landsbankinn hf

Address  
Austurstræti 11  
155 Reykjavík

Beneficiary  
Hugverkastofan

Address  
Katrínartún 4  
105 Reykjavík

Account No.  
0111-26-12189

IBAN No.  
IS71 0111 2601 2189 6501 9121 89

SWIFT code  
NBIIISRE

All payments must indicate the application number (national, if already known;
international, if the national number is not yet known)

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

Section 9 of the Icelandic Patent Act and Section 25 of the Regulation
Concerning Patent Applications

Provisional protection after international publication:

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a national patent:

After international publication, the furnishing of a translation of the
abstract and claims into Icelandic gives the applicant provisional protection
in the sense that, upon grant of the patent, he is entitled to damages. These
are limited to what is judged reasonable under the circumstances and the
protection is limited to what is claimed in both the application and the
patent. Refer to Sections 33, 58 and 60 of the Patent Act.

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a European patent:

Compensation reasonable in the circumstances, on condition that any national
requirements relating to the translation into Icelandic of the claims of the
application have been met, and upon grant of the patent. Protection is limited
to what is claimed in both the application and the patent (refer to Section 83
of the Patent Act).

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

For national protection

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished later. If the data concerning the
inventor are missing at the expiration of the time limit under PCT Article 22
or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement
within the time limit fixed in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

For a European patent

Refer to [Annex B(EP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=ep&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Iceland

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3). If the language
in which the international application is filed is not a language of
publication and no translation is required for the purposes of international
search (PCT Rule 12.3(a)), the applicant will have to furnish a translation of
the application into English (PCT Rule 12.4(a))

Danish,

English,

Norwegian,

Swedish

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

The Office has not specifically notified the International Bureau of the
language that it accepts under PCT Rule 12.1(d).

Same as above

Language in which the request may be filed:

English

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via EPO Online Filing or ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 10 December 2015, pages 203 _et seq._

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C
of the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
If the receiving Office does not accept international applications in
electronic form in such format, the international application will be
transmitted to the International Bureau as receiving Office (PCT Rule
19.4(a)(ii-_bis_)).

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

Yes

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[SE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SE&doc-lang=EN)

Sweden - Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV)

,

[XN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=XN&doc-lang=EN)

Nordic Patent Institute - Nordic Patent Institute

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[SE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SE&doc-lang=EN)

Sweden - Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV)

,

[XN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=XN&doc-lang=EN)

Nordic Patent Institute - Nordic Patent Institute

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

18,200 ISK

International filing fee:

213,100 ISK

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

2,400 ISK

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

32,100 ISK

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

48,100 ISK

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(SE)  
Annex D(XN)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

4,900 ISK

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

43,500 ISK

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Iceland  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any natural or legal person residing in the European Economic Area (EEA), in a
member state of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) or in the Faroe
Islands

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent or a common
representative who was not indicated on the request form at the time of filing

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent or a common
representative who was not indicated on the request form at the time of filing

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

Where applicant requests publication earlier than 16 months from the priority
date, not later than that request

— any additional indications:

At the time of filing (as part of the application)

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, all significant information on the
characteristics of the microorganism

Additional information

The applicant may request that, until a patent has been granted or a final
decision taken by the Icelandic Intellectual Property Office (ISIPO)
concerning an application which has not resulted in a patent, the furnishing
of a sample shall only be effected to an expert in the art. The request to
this effect shall be filed by the applicant with the Icelandic Intellectual
Property Office (ISIPO) not later than at the time when the application is
made available to the public under Sections 22 and 33(3) of the Icelandic
Patent Act. If such a request has been filed by the applicant, any request
made by a third party for the furnishing of a sample shall indicate the expert
to be used. That expert may be any person entered on a list of recognized
experts drawn up by the Icelandic Intellectual Property Office (ISIPO) or any
person approved by the applicant in the individual case.

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(3): 31 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes, the Office permits reinstatement of rights under the "due care"
criterion.

Fee for reestablishment of rights

43,500 ISK

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or
39(1). However, where a language other than Icelandic was used the Office
will, before the application is made available to the public, invite the
applicant to furnish a translation into Icelandic of the abstract, claims and
text matter of the drawing which will appear with the abstract

Danish,

English,

Icelandic,

Norwegian,

Swedish

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or
39(1). However, where a language other than Icelandic was used the Office
will, before the application is made available to the public, invite the
applicant to furnish a translation into Icelandic of the abstract, claims and
text matter of the drawing which will appear with the abstract

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, as originally filed or
as amended together with any statement under PCT Article 19, at applicant’s
option), any text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, as originally filed or as
amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report, at
applicant’s option)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

Yes, the ISIPO accepts color or greyscale drawings or photographs only on an
informal basis. The Icelandic Patent Act does not address this issue, however,
in the national Patent Regulation it is stated that drawings may not be
submitted in color. The Office does not oppose the use of color/grayscale
drawings or photographs, should these be contained in a national application.
This provision is to be altered upon the next revision of the Regulation.

National fees:

Application fee 1

67,800 ISK

Claim fee for each claim in excess of 10 2

4,400 ISK

Additional fee for late furnishing of translation 3

18,300 ISK

Annual fees for the first three years 4

34,800 ISK

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_): 2

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application 5

If the applicant is someone other than the inventor, the application must
state how the applicant acquired title to the invention 5

Appointment of an agent if applicant is not resident in Iceland

Who can act as agent?

Any natural or legal person residing in the European Economic Area (EEA), in a
member state of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) or in the Faroe
Islands

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

IS.01 FORM FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

The Office has available a special form for entering the national phase (refer
to Annex IS.II). This form should preferably (but need not) be used.

IS.02 LANGUAGE OF PROCEEDINGS

The language of correspondence may be Danish, English, Icelandic, Norwegian or
Swedish although the Office may require a translation into Icelandic where
needed.

IS.03 TRANSLATION (LATE FURNISHING OF)

IPL Sec. 31(3)  
If the translation of the international application has not been furnished by
the applicant within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)
but the national fee indicated in the Summary has been paid within that time
limit, the translation can still be furnished within a further period of two
months, provided that the additional fee for late furnishing of the
translation, indicated in the Summary, has been paid within those two months.

IS.04 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

IS.05 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex IS.I.

IS.06 TITLE TO THE INVENTION

IPL Sec. 8(4),  IPR Art. 3  
If the applicant is someone other than the inventor, the application must
state how the applicant acquired title to the invention. Refer to paragraph 8
of the special form for entering the national phase (Annex IS.II). This
requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has been made in
accordance with PCT Rule 4.17. The Office can demand documentation proving the
right of the applicant to the invention.

IS.07 POWER OF ATTORNEY

IPL Sec. 12,  IPL Sec. 33(2)  
An agent may be appointed either by filing a separate power of attorney or in
a special form referred to in paragraph IS.01. A model of a separate power of
attorney is given in Annex IS.III.

IS.08 SEARCH AND EXAMINATION

IPR Art. 23  
In accordance with a special agreement, the Danish Patent and Trademark Office
carries out search and examination on Icelandic patent applications. No
special request is necessary. The Icelandic Intellectual Property Office
(ISIPO) may also take into consideration searches and examinations carried out
by other searching and examining authorities.

IS.09 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41  
The applicant may make the following modifications before the Office, provided
that the scope of the subject matter of the application is not broadened
thereby:

IPL Sec. 31  
(i) within 31 months from the priority date: corrections of defects and
voluntary amendments;

IPL Sec. 19-21,  IPR Art. 30-35  
(ii) up to the notification that a patent can be granted: amendments or
additions to the description and drawing(s) if they are necessary to comply
with general requirements under PCT Articles 5 and 7; amendments or additions
to the claims, which, unless the Office allows otherwise, must be made by
filing a new document comprising all of the claims in sequence; where
additions are made to the claims, the applicant must at the same time file a
statement indicating the reference basis for these additions.

IS.10 GRANT FEE

IPL Sec. 19  
A grant fee must be paid within two months after the date of the notification
that a patent can be granted. The amount of the fee is indicated in Annex
IS.I.

IS.11 TRANSLATION FOR GRANT PURPOSE

IPL Sec. 31(3),  IPL Sec. 19,  IPR Art. 5  
Together with the notification that a patent can be granted upon payment of
the grant fee (refer to paragraph IS.10), the applicant is invited to furnish,
within four months after the date of that notification, a translation of the
final version of the patent claims, abstract and text of drawings into
Icelandic and a translation of the final version of the description into
Icelandic or English, if it is not already available.

IS.12 RENEWAL FEES

IPL Sec. 8(5),  IPL Sec. 40,  IPL Sec. 41  
Renewal fees must be paid for each year following the international filing
date. For the due date of renewal fees for the first three years, refer to the
Summary. Payment of the subsequent renewal fees must be made before the
expiration of the month containing the anniversary of the international filing
date. Payment can still be made, together with a 20% surcharge for late
payment, before the expiration of the sixth month after the month containing
the anniversary of the international filing date. The amounts of the renewal
fees are indicated in Annex IS.I. Renewal fees may not be paid earlier than
three months before the due date.

IS.13

IPL Sec. 42  
If the applicant or the patent owner is the inventor, and if the payment of
the renewal fees is deemed to involve great difficulties for him, the Office
may grant him a temporary exemption from the payment thereof of up to three
years, provided that a request to that effect is submitted not later than the
date on which the renewal fees fall due the first time.

IS.14 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51,  IPL Sec. 24(1),  IPL Sec. 25(1)  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. If, upon review under PCT Article 25, the Office denies an
error or omission on the part of the receiving Office or the International
Bureau, an appeal against this decision may be lodged with the Board of
Appeals within two months from the date of the decision. Within the same two-
month time limit, a fee for appeal must be paid (for the amount, refer to
Annex IS.I).

IS.15 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2),  PCT Rule 82 _bis_ ,  IPL Sec. 72,  IPL Sec.
73  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.
Reestablishment of rights may be requested where the applicant, in spite of
all due care reasonably required, was unable to observe a time limit during
the international phase or before the Office, default of which is prejudicial
to his rights. A request for reestablishment must be presented in writing
within two months after the removal of the cause of the failure to perform the
action but not later than one year from the expiration of the time limit which
has not been observed. Within the said two months, the omitted act must be
completed, the fee for reestablishment of rights must be paid and the request
must state the grounds on which it is based and set out the facts on which it
relies. The amount of the fee for reestablishment of rights is indicated in
Annex IS.I.

IS.16

IPL Sec. 15  
Resumption of proceedings concerning the application may be requested from the
Office where the applicant missed a time limit which has been fixed for a
certain action by the Office. Resumption of proceedings may not be requested
where the missed time limit is fixed in the PCT, the PCT Regulations, the
Icelandic Patent Act or the Icelandic Patents Decree. A request for resumption
of proceedings has the effect that the proceedings for grant will be resumed,
provided that, within four months from the expiration of the missed time
limit, the said request is presented in writing, the resumption fee is paid
and the omitted act has been completed. The amount of the fee for resumption
of proceedings is indicated in Annex IS.I.

##  Annexes

Annex IS.I - Fees

Application fee

67,800 ISK

Claim fee for each claim in excess of 10

4,400 ISK

Additional fee for late furnishing of translation

18,300 ISK

Grant fee:

— publication fee (for the first 40 pages of the description, patent claims,
abstract and drawings)

29,000 ISK

— additional fee for each subsequent page in excess of 40

1,300 ISK

— additional fee for each claim added after the filing of the application

4,400 ISK

Fee for reissuing a patent

29,000 ISK

Fee for amendment of claims and reissuing a patent

29,900 ISK

Fee for change of applicant’s name or address or change regarding the agent

3,700 ISK

Fee for reestablishment of rights

43,500 ISK

Fee for restoration of priority

43,500 ISK

Appeal fee

85,000 ISK

Resumption fee

11,600 ISK

— if the application has been previously resumed

11,600 ISK

Annual fees:

— for the 1st to the 3rd year, per year

— for the 1st to the 3rd year

per year 11,600 ISK

— for the 4th year

13,400 ISK

— for the 5th year

14,600 ISK

— for the 6th year

15,800 ISK

— for the 7th year

17,600 ISK

— for the 8th year

19,400 ISK

— for the 9th year

21,800 ISK

— for the 10th year

24,200 ISK

— for the 11th year

26,600 ISK

— for the 12th year

29,000 ISK

— for the 13th year

32,000 ISK

— for the 14th year

36,200 ISK

— for the 15th year

40,500 ISK

— for the 16th year

44,700 ISK

— for the 17th year

50,200 ISK

— for the 18th year

55,100 ISK

— for the 19th year

60,400 ISK

— for the 20th year

66,500 ISK

Supplement for late payment of annual fees

20% of the applicable annual fee

How can payment of fees be effected?

Fees can be paid in cash or check to the Office, or to the Office’s bank
account

Name of bank  
Landsbankinn hf

Address  
Austurstræti 11  
155 Reykjavík

Beneficiary  
Hugverkastofan

Address  
Katrínartún 4  
105 Reykjavík

Account No.  
0111-26-12189

IBAN No.  
IS71 0111 2601 2189 6501 9121 89

SWIFT code  
NBIIISRE

All payments must indicate the application number (national, if already known;
international, if the national number is not yet known)

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex IS.II - National processing request
form](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_is.pdf)

[Annex IS.III - Power of
attorney](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_is.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a Must be paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or
39(1).  
2 ^ a b If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under
PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with
the requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.  
3 ^ a Where the basic national fee has been paid within the applicable time
limit under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the prescribed translation may be filed
within a further period of two months, provided that it is accompanied by the
additional fee.  
4 ^ a These fees are payable within two months after performing the acts for
entering the national phase.  
5 ^ a b This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  

Change(s) as of 11 April 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental Organization

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

Fees can be paid in cash or check to the Office, or to the Office’s bank
account

Name of bank  
Landsbankinn hf

Address  
Austurstræti 11  
155 Reykjavík

Beneficiary  
Hugverkastofan

Address  
Katrínartún 4  
105 Reykjavík

Account No.  
0111-26-12189

IBAN No.  
IS71 0111 2601 2189 6501 9121 89

SWIFT code  
NBIIISRE

All payments must indicate the application number (national, if already known;
international, if the national number is not yet known)

  

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

  

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

  

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

Yes

  

  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes, the Office permits reinstatement of rights under the "due care"
criterion.

Fee for reestablishment of rights

43,500 ISK

  

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

Yes, the ISIPO accepts color or greyscale drawings or photographs only on an
informal basis. The Icelandic Patent Act does not address this issue, however,
in the national Patent Regulation it is stated that drawings may not be
submitted in color. The Office does not oppose the use of color/grayscale
drawings or photographs, should these be contained in a national application.
This provision is to be altered upon the next revision of the Regulation.

  

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

  

Close

Current version applicable from 11 Apr 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

