####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
IT - Useful informationIT - International PhaseIT - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationIT - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeIT - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialIT - National PhaseIT - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseIT - The procedure in the national PhaseIT - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide IT - Italy  
Italian Patent and Trademark Office

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **25 April 2024**

(published on 25 April 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
GENERAL INFO: Payment methods  
RO: Electronic filing, Incorporation by reference  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase: National phase,
Restoration of the right of priority, Reinstatement of rights  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 28 Sep 2023, 26 Oct 2023, 1 Jan 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for IT - Italian Patent and Trademark Office)).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Italian Patent and Trademark Office

IPC/LD: Industrial Property Code, Legislative Decree No. 30/2005 of 10
February 2005

MD 33/2010: Ministerial Decree 33/2010 of 13 January 2010, Regulations for
Implementation of the Industrial Property Code

MD 27/06/2008: Ministerial Decree of 27 June 2008, Novelty Search on Italian
Patent Applications

MD 13/11/2019: Ministerial Decree of 13 November 2019, Implementing Rules for
International Applications Entering the Italian National Phase

MD 02/04/2007: Ministerial Decree of 2 April 2007, Determination of Fees on
Patents and Utility Models

List of currencies used in this document:

EUR (Euro)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=IT).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Italy

Two-letter code:

[IT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IT&doc-lang=EN)

Italy - Italian Patent and Trademark Office

Name of Office:

Italian Patent and Trademark Office

Location:

19 via Molise  
00187 Roma  
Italy

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(39-06) 4705-5800

E-mail:

uibm.pct@mise.gov.it

Website:

<https://uibm.mise.gov.it/index.php/it>

Facsimile:

None

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by e-mail

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents except the international application

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes, within two months from the date of the transmission

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

For applications filed with the Office on or after 1 October 2018

Yes, the Office is prepared to allow applicants to make international and
national applications available to the WIPO DAS

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[IT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IT&doc-lang=EN)

Italy - Italian Patent and Trademark Office

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Legislative Decree No. 30 of 10 February 2005, Article 198(1) as modified
following Law No. 102 of 24 July 2023, Article 8, which entered into force on
23 August 2023.

Unless the international application claims the priority of a national
application filed in Italy more than 60 days previously and such application
has not been made subject of the official secrets regulation

Yes

Filing restrictions apply to:

Applications by residents

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

For international applications filed on or after 1 July 2020

National protection: IT

European patent: EP

Types of protection available via the PCT:

For international applications filed on or after 1 July 2020

National:

Patents

Utility models (a utility model may be sought instead of a national patent)

European:

Patents

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

The payment of fees should be effected in euros. Payment can be made by using
payment form F24 or by electronic means (i.e. PagoPA).

All payments must indicate:

— the national application number; international application number only if
the national application number is not yet known

— the name of the applicant

— the category of fee being paid

For more information, refer to <https://uibm.mise.gov.it/index.php/en>

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a national patent:

An international application designating Italy which has been published under
PCT Article 21 confers provisional protection, as provided for in Article 55
c.1-_bis_ of the Italian Industrial Property Code, as from the date on which
the owner of the application made available to the public, through the Italian
Patent and Trademark Office, a translation of the application into Italian
language, or from the date on which the owner of the application notified the
alleged infringer directly of the translation.

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a European patent:

After publication by the EPO of the international application in a translation
into one of its official languages furnished to it, the applicant may, as from
the date on which a translation into Italian of the claims is made available
to the public or communicated to the user, obtain damages and possibly the
description and seizure of the articles infringing the patent and anything
used in the making thereof.

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

For national protection

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished later. If the data concerning the
inventor are missing at the expiration of the time limit under PCT Article 22
or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement
within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

For a European patent

Refer to [Annex B(EP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=ep&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Italy

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3).

English,

French,

German,

Italian

  

In accordance with Legislative Decree No. 30 of 10 February 2005, an
international application filed in English, French or German by a resident of
Italy must be accompanied by a summary in Italian which defines in a
comprehensive manner the characteristics of the invention and a copy of any
drawings (only for the purposes of Article 198(1) of the above mentioned
Decree as modified following Law No. 102 of 24 July 2023, Article 8) if no
priority of an earlier national (Italian) application is claimed or, where
such priority is claimed, if the international application is filed prior to
the expiration of 60 days from the filing date of that earlier national
application.

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

English,

French,

German,

Italian,

or English and another filing language

Language in which the request may be filed:

English,

French,

German

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notifications by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 23 November 2017, pages 179 _et seq._ and 4 August 2022,
pages 206 _et seq._

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

Yes

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

30.99 EUR

International filing fee:

1,381 EUR

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

16 EUR

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

208 EUR

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

311 EUR

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EP)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

— for the request to prepare the priority document (in fee stamps)

paper copy 16 EUR

electronic copy 16 EUR

— for every four pages or fraction of four pages (description, claims,
abstract, drawings, filing certificate and certificate of authenticity) (in
fee stamps)

paper copy, plus 16 EUR

— for the download of the electronic copy (in fee stamps)

electronic copy, plus 16 EUR

— for a patent application or

paper copy 7 EUR

electronic copy 3 EUR

— for a utility model application

paper copy 5 EUR

electronic copy 3 EUR

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

online 16 EUR

on paper, in fee stamps 16 EUR

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No

Who can act as agent?

Any patent attorney recorded in the official register established by the Board
of the Industrial Property Consultants Institute 1

Citizens of the European Union qualified to practice as patent attorney in
another member State, on a temporary basis, pursuant to the procedure under
the legislative Decree No. 206/2007

Any Italian lawyer or attorney-at-law whose name appears in the respective
professional roll or any law firm employing such a lawyer or attorney-at-law 2

Waiver of power of attorney:

For international applications filed on or after 1 March 2021. Waivers of
powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d)) where the agent
or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal during the
international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer to
International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

The Office continues to require that a power of attorney be submitted in the
following instances:  
If the agent is not:  
— a patent attorney or an attorney-at-law authorized to practice in Italy
(recorded in the pertinent official register or professional roll) or any law
firm employing such a lawyer or attorney-at-law;  
— a patent attorney or an attorney-at-law qualified to practice in another
member State of the European Union, authorized to pursue certain professional
activities in Italy on a temporary basis (refer to legislative Decree No.
206/2007);  
In case of reasonable doubt regarding the agent’s entitlement to act;  
In case of a common representative.

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

The Office continues to require that a power of attorney be submitted in the
following instances:  
If the agent is not:  
— a patent attorney or an attorney-at-law authorized to practice in Italy
(recorded in the pertinent official register or professional roll) or any law
firm employing such a lawyer or attorney-at-law;  
— a patent attorney or an attorney-at-law qualified to practice in another
member State of the European Union, authorized to pursue certain professional
activities in Italy on a temporary basis (refer to legislative Decree No.
206/2007);  
In case of reasonable doubt regarding the agent’s entitlement to act.

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

Where the applicant requests early publication or notifies the application to
third parties earlier than 16 months from the priority date, the indications
prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) must be provided not later than
that request or notification (Legislative Decree No. 30/2005, Art. 162(2))

— any additional indications:

At the time of filing (must be in the description)

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available, a description of the characteristics of the
microorganism and/or other biological material

Additional information

Deposits may be made for the purposes of patent procedure before the Italian
Patent and Trademark Office with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure (these institutions are indicated further in this
Annex and notifications related thereto may be consulted under
<https://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>).

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes, the Office permits reinstatement of rights under the "due care"
criterion.

Fee for reinstatement (re-establishment of rights)

For filing a power of attorney, a request for re-establishment of rights or a
request for restoration of the right of priority, payment of a special tax
(_imposta di bollo_) is required. The following bank account should be used
only for payments from abroad: Beneficiary: Banca d’Italia, Bank: Banca
d’Italia, IBAN: IT07Y0100003245348008120501 -BIC: BITAITRRENT, reason for
payment: Imposta di bollo. The proof of payment must be enclosed when filing a
power of attorney, a request for re-establishment of rights or a request for
restoration of the right of priority.

16 EUR

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or
39(1) or at the latest within two months from entry into the national phase.
This deadline cannot be extended. For further details, refer to paragraph
IT.02.

Italian

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report
on patentability (Chapter II) and any claims amended under PCT Article 19)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

Only black printed lines drawings on white paper are allowed (art. 22 MD
33/2010), but on an informal basis the Office accepts the submission of color
or greyscale drawings. No photographs or reproductions of photographs are
allowed (except in special cases, such as reproductions of crystal lattices or
spectrographic traces that cannot be represented otherwise)

National fees:

Patents

Filing fee:

The filing fee for entry into the national phase is calculated on the basis of
the number of claims of the international application as published, i.e. the
claims as originally filed or as amended pursuant to Art. 19 PCT (IPC/LD, Art.
160-_bis_ and Ministerial Decree of 13 November 2019, Art. 2(3)).

— application with up to 10 pages

online 50 EUR

on paper 120 EUR

— application with 11 to 20 pages

online 50 EUR

on paper 160 EUR

— application with 21 to 50 pages

online 50 EUR

on paper 400 EUR

— application more than 50 pages

online 50 EUR

on paper 600 EUR

— for each claim exceeding 10

online 45 EUR

on paper 45 EUR

Utility models

Filing fee

online 50 EUR

on paper 120 EUR

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

No filing fee is payable if the application is filed by universities, public
research institutions, defense or agricultural, food or forestry policies
administrations

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

Name of the inventor if it has not been furnished in the “Request” part of the
international application 3

Instrument of assignment of the priority right where the applicants are not
identical 3

Address for service in the European Union or European Economic Area is
necessary (but appointment of an agent is not required)

Furnishing, where applicable, of a nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence
listing in electronic form

Who can act as agent?

An agent, if any, must be appointed by filing a power of attorney, and payment
of a special tax (imposta di bollo) is required. For further details, refer to
Annex IT.I

Any patent attorney recorded in the official register established by the Board
of the Industrial Property Consultants Institute 1

Citizens of the European Union qualified to practice as patent attorney in
another member State, on a temporary basis, pursuant to the procedure under
the legislative Decree No. 206/2007

Any Italian lawyer or attorney-at-law whose name appears in the pertinent
professional roll or any law firm employing such a lawyer or attorney-at-law 2

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

IT.01 FORM FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

Forms for entering the national phase (paper filing) are available on the
Office’s website at: <https://uibm.mise.gov.it/index.php/it> (refer to Annex
IT.II - Patents and Annex IT.III - Utility Models). Online filing is available
at <https://servizionline.uibm.gov.it>.

IT.02 TRANSLATION

IPC/LD Art. 148(5), IPC/LD Art. 160-_bis_ , IPC/LD Art. 55, MD 13/11/2019 Art.
1(2), MD 13/11/2019 Art. 1(3), MD 13/11/2019 Art. 4  
For entry into the national phase a complete Italian translation of  
the international application as published must be provided.

If the Office acts as designated Office, said translation shall include any
amendments made to the claims under PCT Article 19. The amendments must be
submitted together with, if submitted to the International Bureau, the
statement under PCT Article 19(1) explaining the amendments, and the
accompanying letter under PCT Rule 46.5(b).

If the Office acts as elected Office, the international application as
published must be accompanied by the translation of any annexes to the
international preliminary report on patentability (Chapter II), i.e.
regardless of whether protection is sought for the same version of the
application documents as was the subject of that report.

The translation may be declared to be consistent with the original text by the
applicant or a patent attorney. If the description is presented in a language
other than Italian, the translation into Italian shall be filed within two
months from the date of submission of the request to enter the national phase.
This term cannot be extended.

IT.03 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

IT.04 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

MD 13/11/2019,  Art. 2 (3),  MD 02/04/2007  
The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex IT.I.

IT.05 ADDRESS FOR SERVICE

IPC/LD Art. 147 (3 _bis_),  IPC/LD Art. 147(3 _ter_)  
An applicant, whether or not a national of or a resident in Italy, is not
required to be represented by an agent, but is required to have an address for
service (notices and other communications) in the European Union or the
European Economic Area. Every person (including the applicant for, or
proprietor of a patent) must also indicate a certified e-mail address or
similar e-mail address based on technologies that certify the date and time of
sending and receiving communications and the integrity of the contents.

IT.06 APPOINTMENT OF AN AGENT

IPC/LD Art. 201  
An agent, if any, must be appointed by filing a power of attorney in Italian
language. A model of power of attorney is given in Annex IT.IV. For the power
of attorney, payment of a special tax (_imposta di bollo_) is required. For
details, refer to Annex IT.I.

IT.07 RENEWAL FEES

IPC/LD Art. 227,  MD 02/04/2007  
After a patent has been granted, a fee must be paid for maintaining the patent
in force starting at the beginning of the fifth year counted from the
international filing date. Payment must be made each year before the
expiration of the last day of the month in which the international application
was filed. Payment can still be made, together with a surcharge, during a
further period of six months. The amount of the annual fees and the surcharge
are indicated in Annex IT.I.

IT.08 DEED OF ASSIGNMENT

IPC/LD Art. 169(2),  MD 13/11/2019,  Art. 2(4)  
When the applicant claims the priority of an earlier application filed by an
applicant who is not identical with the applicant of the international
application, a deed (or deeds) of assignment must be furnished.

IT.09 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION, TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  IPC/LD Art. 172,  MD 13/11/2019 Art. 3  
The applicant may amend or correct the international application, provided
that the scope of the subject matter of the application is not broadened
thereby, according to the provisions of the law:

(i) after the receipt of the notification of the Office that the application
has entered into substantial examination, within the time limit established by
the Office in the aforementioned communication;

(ii) in any case, on its own initiative, before the grant or refusal of the
patent.

The applicant may file amendments to any part of the application up to the
decision to grant a patent.

IT.10 EXAMINATION

IPC/LD Art. 170, IPC/LD Art. 45, IPC/LD Art. 81quinquies, MD 13/11/2019 Art.
3(3)  
Italian patents shall not be granted for subject matter excluded from
patentability. Examination of the patents which meet the formal requirements
is aimed at determining that the subject matter of the application is
consistent with what is established by IPC/LD Articles 45, 50 and 82,
including the validity requirements of novelty, inventive step and industrial
application. Examination is made on the International Search Report results
and on the International Preliminary Report on Patentability (IPRP Chapter I
or II) results and taking into account observations or amendments filed by the
applicant.

IT.11 NUCLEOTIDE AND AMINO ACID SEQUENCES

MD 33/2010 Art. 22(8)  
If the application discloses one or more nucleotide and/or amino acid
sequences required to be included in a sequence listing and a standard-
compliant sequence listing in XML format is not contained in the international
application, it must be provided or made available to the Office by other
means on entry into the national phase.

Furthermore, in case of late filing of a sequence listing in XML format, the
applicant must enclose a declaration to the effect that the sequence listing
does not extend beyond the content of the application as originally filed.
WIPO Standard ST.26 applies to PCT applications with an international filing
date of 1 July 2022 or later. For international applications with an earlier
international filing date, WIPO Standard ST.25 continues to apply

Refer to the Official Notices (PCT Gazette) of 24 February 2022, page 55.

IT.12 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

IPC/LD Art. 192,  MD 13/11/2019,  Art. 1,  c. 5  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.

Where during the international phase or before the Office, the applicant has
missed a time limit for performing any act in relation to the international
application, further processing may be requested within two months of expiry
of the time limit not complied with. The request must be completed with the
omitted action and with the proof of payment of the fees prescribed for
further processing (refer to Annex IT.I).

IT.13 RE-ESTABLISHMENT OF RIGHTS

IPC/LD Art. 193  
Re-establishment of rights may be requested where the applicant, in spite of
all due care required by the circumstances, was unable to observe a time limit
before the Office, default of which is prejudicial to his rights. A request
for re-establishment must be presented in writing within one year after the
removal of the cause of the failure to perform the action. Within the said
year, the omitted action must be completed, and the request must state the
grounds on which it is based and set out the facts on which it relies. A
special tax (imposta di bollo) must be paid when requesting re-establishment
of rights as indicated in Annex IT.I.

IT.14 REQUEST FOR RESTORATION OF RIGHT OF PRIORITY

IPC/LD Art. 193(5)  
Where the international application was filed within two months from the end
of the period for claiming priority of an earlier application, a request for
restoration of the right of priority may be made to the Office in accordance
with the national law (refer to National Phase, paragraphs 6.006 to 6.011).
For the request to be granted, the Office must be satisfied that the failure
to file the application within the 12-month priority period occurred in spite
of due care required by the circumstances. A declaration or other evidence in
support of a request for restoration of the right of priority should accompany
the request. A special tax (imposta di bollo) must be paid when requesting
restoration of priority as indicated in Annex IT.I.

IT.15 UTILITY MODEL

IPC/LD Art. 82-86  
If the applicant wishes to obtain a utility model instead of a patent in
Italy, on the basis of an international application, the applicant, when
performing the acts referred to in PCT Article 22 or 39, shall so indicate to
the Office. The requirements for the national phase are basically the same as
for patents, but utility model protection does not cover processes, according
to IPC Article 82.

Instead of annual fees, maintenance fees have to be paid once for utility
models at the beginning of the fifth year counted from the international
filing date. The amount of the annual fees and the surcharge fee for late
payment are indicated in Annex IT.I. The maximum term of protection is 10
years.

IT.16 CONVERSION

IPC/LD Art. 84 (2)  
The Office can invite the applicant to convert the international application
for a patent into a utility model, after the applicant has complied with the
requirements for entry into the national phase for a patent application, as
indicated in the Summary.

##  Annexes

Annex IT.I - Fees

Patents

Filing fee:

The filing fee for entry into the national phase is calculated on the basis of
the number of claims of the international application as amended (Ministerial
Decree of 13 November 2019, Art. 2(1))

— application with up to 10 pages

Online 50 EUR

On paper 120 EUR

— application with 11 to 20 pages

Online 50 EUR

On paper 160 EUR

— application with 21 to 50 pages

Online 50 EUR

On paper 400 EUR

— application more than 50 pages

Online 50 EUR

On paper 600 EUR

— for each claim exceeding 10

Online 45 EUR

On paper 45 EUR

Annual fees:

— for the 5th year counted from the international filing date

Online 60 EUR

— for the 6th year counted from the international filing date

Online 90 EUR

— for the 7th year counted from the international filing date

Online 120 EUR

— for the 8th year counted from the international filing date

Online 170 EUR

— for the 9th year counted from the international filing date

Online 200 EUR

— for the 10th year counted from the international filing date

Online 230 EUR

— for the 11th year counted from the international filing date

Online 310 EUR

— for the 12th year counted from the international filing date

Online 410 EUR

— for the 13th year counted from the international filing date

Online 530 EUR

— for the 14th year counted from the international filing date

Online 600 EUR

— for the 15th to the 20th year counted from the international filing date,
per year

Online 650 EUR

Surcharge for late payment of annual fees

Online 100 EUR

Fee for further processing

Online 300 EUR

Tax (_imposta di bollo_) for filing of power of attorney 4

Online 16 EUR

On paper 16 EUR

Tax (_imposta di bollo_) for request for re-establishment of rights 4

Online 16 EUR

On paper 16 EUR

Tax (_imposta di bollo_) for request for restoration of the right of priority
4

Online 16 EUR

On paper 16 EUR

Utility models

Filing fee:

Online 50 EUR

On paper 120 EUR

Annual fees:

— from the 6th to the 10th year of protection

Online 500 EUR

Surcharge for late payment of annual fees

Online 100 EUR

Fee for further processing

Online 300 EUR

Tax (_imposta di bollo_) for filing of power of attorney 4

Online 16 EUR

On paper 16 EUR

Tax (_imposta di bollo_) for request for re-establishment of rights 4

Online 16 EUR

On paper 16 EUR

Tax (_imposta di bollo_) for request for restoration of the right of priority
4

Online 16 EUR

On paper 16 EUR

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of fees should be effected in euros. Payment can be made by using
payment form F24 or by electronic means (i.e. PagoPA).

All payments must indicate:

— the national application number; international application number only if
the national application number is not yet known

— the name of the applicant

— the category of fee being paid

For more information, refer to <https://uibm.mise.gov.it/index.php/en>

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex IT.II - National processing request form
(patents)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_it.pdf)

[Annex IT.III - National processing request form (utility
models)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_it.pdf)

[Annex IT.IV - Power of
attorney](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_IV_it.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a b The list of patent attorneys can be obtained from the Ordine dei
Consulenti in Proprietà Industriale (Board of the Industrial Property
Consultants Institute) (<https://www.ordine-brevetti.it>).  
2 ^ a b For further details, refer to
<https://www.consiglionazionaleforense.it>.  
3 ^ a b This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  
4 ^ a b c d e f For filing a power of attorney, a request for re-establishment
of rights or a request for restoration of the right of priority, payment of a
special tax (imposta di bollo) is required. The following bank account should
be used only for payments from abroad: Beneficiary: Banca d’Italia, Bank:
Banca d’Italia, IBAN: IT07Y0100003245348008120501 -BIC: BITAITRRENT, reason
for payment: Imposta di bollo. The proof of payment must be enclosed when
filing a power of attorney, a request for re-establishment of rights or a
request for restoration of the right of priority.  

Change(s) as of 25 April 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental Organization

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

The payment of fees should be effected in euros. Payment can be made by using
payment form F24 or by electronic means (i.e. PagoPA).

All payments must indicate:

— the national application number; international application number only if
the national application number is not yet known

— the name of the applicant

— the category of fee being paid

For more information, refer to <https://uibm.mise.gov.it/index.php/en>

  

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

  

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

  

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

Yes

  

  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes, the Office permits reinstatement of rights under the "due care"
criterion.

Fee for reinstatement (re-establishment of rights)

For filing a power of attorney, a request for re-establishment of rights or a
request for restoration of the right of priority, payment of a special tax
(_imposta di bollo_) is required. The following bank account should be used
only for payments from abroad: Beneficiary: Banca d’Italia, Bank: Banca
d’Italia, IBAN: IT07Y0100003245348008120501 -BIC: BITAITRRENT, reason for
payment: Imposta di bollo. The proof of payment must be enclosed when filing a
power of attorney, a request for re-establishment of rights or a request for
restoration of the right of priority.

16 EUR

  

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

Only black printed lines drawings on white paper are allowed (art. 22 MD
33/2010), but on an informal basis the Office accepts the submission of color
or greyscale drawings. No photographs or reproductions of photographs are
allowed (except in special cases, such as reproductions of crystal lattices or
spectrographic traces that cannot be represented otherwise)

  

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

  

Close

Current version applicable from 25 Apr 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

