####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
JM - Useful informationJM - International PhaseJM - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationJM - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeJM - National PhaseJM - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseJM - The procedure in the national PhaseJM - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide JM - Jamaica  
Jamaica Intellectual Property Office (JIPO)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **18 April 2024**

(published on 19 April 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
GENERAL INFO: Payment methods  
RO: Electronic filing, Incorporation by reference  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase: National phase,
Restoration of the right of priority, Reinstatement of rights  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 1 Jan 2024, 1 Mar 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for JM - Jamaica Intellectual Property Office \(JIPO\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Jamaica Intellectual Property Office (JIPO)

PDA: The Patents and Designs Act (Act No. 1 of 2020)

List of currencies used in this document:

JMD (Jamaican dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=JM).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Jamaica

Two-letter code:

[JM](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JM&doc-lang=EN)

Jamaica - Jamaica Intellectual Property Office (JIPO)

Name of Office:

Jamaica Intellectual Property Office (JIPO)

Location:

18 Trafalgar Road  
Kingston 10  
Jamaica

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(876) 946 13 00

E-mail:

info@jipo.gov.jm

Website:

<https://www.jipo.gov.jm>

Facsimile:

None

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by e-mail

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

No, only upon invitation

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

Yes

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

Not applicable

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[JM](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JM&doc-lang=EN)

Jamaica - Jamaica Intellectual Property Office (JIPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[JM](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JM&doc-lang=EN)

Jamaica - Jamaica Intellectual Property Office (JIPO)

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Patents, utility models (utility models may be sought in addition to a patent)

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

All fees must be paid in Jamaican dollars. All payments must indicate the
application number (national, if already known; international, if the national
number is not yet known), the name of the applicant and the category of fee
being paid.

Online payment is not available. Only currently available means of payment are
allowed. Acceptable methods of payment include:  
— cash,  
— manager's cheque,  
— credit card and  
— debit card.  
Personal cheques and international debit cards are not accepted.

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

Section 20(2)(b) of the Patents and Designs Act (Act No.1 of 2020)

Provisional protection after international publication:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished later. If not already complied with
within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office
will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit
fixed in the invitation

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

No

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

[JM](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JM&doc-lang=EN)

Jamaica - Jamaica Intellectual Property Office (JIPO)

Language in which international applications may be filed:

English

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Same as above

Language in which the request may be filed:

English

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C
of the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to Official Notices (PCT
Gazette) dated 22 September 2022, pages 261 _et seq._

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

Yes

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies both the “unintentional” and the “due care” criteria
to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[CA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CA&doc-lang=EN)

Canada - Canadian Intellectual Property Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[CA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CA&doc-lang=EN)

Canada - Canadian Intellectual Property Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

1

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

8,500 JMD

International filing fee:

Equivalent in JMD of 1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

Equivalent in JMD of 18 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

Equivalent in JMD of 235 USD

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

Equivalent in JMD of 352 USD

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(AT)  
Annex D(AU)  
Annex D(CA)  
Annex D(EP)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

4,500 JMD

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

3,500 JMD

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Jamaica  
Yes, if he is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any natural or legal person resident in Jamaica

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4; refer also
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

None

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

No

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes, the Office permits reinstatement of rights under the “due care” and
“unintentional" criteria.

Fee for reinstatement

4,500 JMD

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

English

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Where the applicant furnishes a translation of the international application
only as amended or only as originally filed, the Office will invite the
applicant to furnish the missing translation

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

A copy is required only if the Office has not received a copy of the
international application from the International Bureau under PCT Article 20.
This may be the case where the applicant expressly requests an earlier start
of the national phase under PCT Article 23(2) or 40(2)

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

Yes

National fees:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Patents

Filing fee

30,000 JMD

Utility models

Filing fee

10,000 JMD

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application 2 3

Statement justifying the applicant’s right to the patent where the applicant
is not the inventor 2 3

Evidence of entitlement to claim priority where the applicant is not the
applicant who filed the earlier application 2 3

Document evidencing a change of name of the applicant if the change occurred
after the international filing date and has not been reflected in a
notification from the International Bureau (Form PCT/IB/306) 3

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in Jamaica 4

Instrument appointing the agent (authorization or power of attorney) 4

Furnishing, where applicable, of a nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence
listing in electronic form

Who can act as agent?

Any natural or legal person resident in Jamaica

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies both the “unintentional” and the “due care” criteria
to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

JM.01 FORM FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

Applicants entering the national phase should indicate the international
application number on Form 1 (refer to Annex JM.II). It is strongly
recommended that this form be used

JM.02 LANGUAGE OF PROCEEDINGS

PDA Sec. 32  
The language of proceedings is English

JM.03 TRANSLATION

PDA Sec. 34(2), PDA Sec. 34(3)  
For entry into the national phase, an English translation of the international
application as published must be provided. A fee for the publication of the
translation is also payable but may be paid within two months from the
invitation, after national phase entry. The amount of the fee is indicated in
Annex JM.I

JM.04 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as originally
filed (refer to National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003)

JM.05 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex JM.I

JM.06 ANNUAL FEES

PDA Sec. 25(1)  
Annual fees are payable as from the grant of a patent, on each anniversary of
the international filing date. The payment of annual fees shall be accompanied
by Form 8 (Payment of Annual Fee) (Annex JM.III). A patent shall cease to have
effect at the end of ninety days after each anniversary of the international
filing date if the annual fee remains unpaid at the expiration of that period,
unless the annual fee is paid in full within ninety days after the end of the
ninety day period after each anniversary. The amounts of the annual fees and
the late payment fee are indicated in Annex JM.I

JM.07 APPOINTMENT OF AN AGENT

If the applicant is not resident in Jamaica, an agent shall be appointed by
filing a power of attorney (Annex JM.III), signed by the applicant

JM.08 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION

PDA Sec. 18(1)  
The applicant may, at any time before the patent is granted, make amendments
to his application. The amount of the fee is indicated in Annex JM.I

JM.09 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2), PCT Art. 48(2), PCT Rule 82 _bis_  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase

JM.10 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase

JM.11 RESTORATION OF THE RIGHT OF PRIORITY

PCT Rule 49 _ter_.2, PDA Sec. 12.10  
Where the international application was filed within two months from the end
of the period for claiming priority of an earlier application, a request may
be made to the Office in accordance with the national law to restore the right
of priority (refer to National Phase, paragraphs 6.006 - 6.011). Such a
request will be allowed if the Office is satisfied that the failure to file
the application within the 12 month priority period was unintentional or that
it occurred in spite of due care required by the circumstances having been
taken

JM.12 REINSTATEMENT OF RIGHTS

PCT Rule 49.6, PDA Sec. 19.4, PDA Sec. 19.5  
Reinstatement of rights may be requested where the applicant unintentionally
or in spite of due care required by the circumstances having been taken,
failed to perform the acts referred to in Article 22 within the applicable
time limit. The Registrar shall not refuse a request for reinstatement of
rights without giving the applicant the opportunity to make observations on
the intended refusal within a reasonable time

JM.13 UTILITY MODEL

If the applicant wishes to obtain a utility model on the basis of an
international application in addition to a patent, the applicant, when
performing the acts referred to in PCT Article 22 or 39(1), shall so indicate
to the designated Office

JM.14 CONVERSION

PDA Sec. 76  
An international application for a patent may be converted into a utility
model, and vice-versa, after the applicant has complied with the requirements
for entry into the national phase. Conversion may be requested at any time
before the grant or refusal of the application. Conversion may only be
requested once. The conversion is subject to the payment of a fee indicated in
Annex JM.I

##  Annexes

Annex JM.I - Fees

Patents

Filing fee

30,000 JMD

Divisional application

30,000 JMD

Registration of an assignment

6,700 JMD

Appointment or change of an agent

4,500 JMD

Change in name or address of an applicant

4,500 JMD

Publication of translation:

— up to 4 pages

3,500 JMD

— for each page in addition to 4 pages

500 JMD

Application to register an assignment

6,700 JMD

Amendment of specification

10,000 JMD

Conversion of a patent application into a utility model application

5,000 JMD

Restoration of the right of priority

3,500 JMD

Annual fees:

— upon the 1st anniversary

2,500 JMD

— upon the 2nd anniversary

4,500 JMD

— upon the 3rd anniversary

5,000 JMD

— upon the 4th anniversary

6,500 JMD

— upon the 5th anniversary

9,500 JMD

— upon the 6th anniversary

11,000 JMD

— upon the 7th anniversary

13,000 JMD

— upon the 8th anniversary

16,000 JMD

— upon the 9th anniversary

19,000 JMD

— upon the 10th anniversary

24,000 JMD

— upon the 11th anniversary

25,000 JMD

— upon the 12th anniversary

26,000 JMD

— upon the 13th anniversary

27,000 JMD

— upon the 14th anniversary

31,000 JMD

— upon the 15th anniversary

37,000 JMD

— upon the 16th anniversary

42,000 JMD

— upon the 17th anniversary

65,800 JMD

— upon the 18th anniversary

75,000 JMD

— upon the 19th anniversary

100,000 JMD

Late payment of the annual fee:

25% of the applicable annual fee

Utility models:

Filing fee

10,000 JMD

Conversion of a utility model application into a patent application

5,000 JMD

How can payment of fees be effected?

All fees must be paid in Jamaican dollar by charging a deposit account held be
the Office. All payments must indicate the application number (national, if
already known; international, if the national number is not yet known), the
name of the applicant and the category of fee being paid

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex JM.II - Form 1 (Application for a
Patent)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_jm.pdf)

[Annex JM.III - Form 8 (Payment of Annual
Fee)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_jm.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office.  
2 ^ a b c This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration
has been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17  
3 ^ a b c d If not already complied with within the time limit applicable
under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply
with the requirement within a time limit of two months from the date of the
invitation by the Office. The Office will charge a fee for compliance with
that requirement in response to the invitation. For the amount of the fee
refer to Annex JM.I  
4 ^ a b If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under
PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with
the requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.  

Change(s) as of 18 April 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental Organization

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

All fees must be paid in Jamaican dollars. All payments must indicate the
application number (national, if already known; international, if the national
number is not yet known), the name of the applicant and the category of fee
being paid.

Online payment is not available. Only currently available means of payment are
allowed. Acceptable methods of payment include:  
— cash,  
— manager's cheque,  
— credit card and  
— debit card.  
Personal cheques and international debit cards are not accepted.

  

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

  

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

  

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

Yes

  

  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes, the Office permits reinstatement of rights under the “due care” and
“unintentional" criteria.

Fee for reinstatement

4,500 JMD

  

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

Yes

  

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

  

Close

Current version applicable from 18 Apr 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

