####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
JO - Useful informationJO - International PhaseJO - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationJO - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeJO - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialJO - National PhaseJO - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseJO - The procedure in the national PhaseJO - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide JO - Jordan  
Industrial Property Protection Directorate, Ministry of Industry, Trade and
Supply (Jordan)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **1 March 2024**

(published on 1 February 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
RO: RO fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 1 Jan 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for JO - Industrial Property Protection Directorate, Ministry of Industry,
Trade and Supply \(Jordan\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Industrial Property Protection Directorate, Ministry of Industry,
Trade and Supply (Jordan)

JPL: Law No. 32 of 1999 on Patents and Law No. 28 of 2007 amending the Patents
Law

JPR: Regulation No. 97 of 2001 on Patents

List of currencies used in this document:

JOD (Jordanian Dinar), USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=JO).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Friday and Saturday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Jordan

Two-letter code:

[JO](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JO&doc-lang=EN)

Jordan - Industrial Property Protection Directorate, Ministry of Industry,
Trade and Supply (Jordan)

Name of Office:

Industrial Property Protection Directorate, Ministry of Industry, Trade and
Supply (Jordan)

Location:

Queen Noor Street  
Amman 11181  
Jordan

Mailing address:

P.O. Box 2019  
Amman 11181  
Jordan

Telephone:

(962) 65 629 030 extensions 325 or 326

E-mail:

Zuhair.b@mit.gov.jo  
Maysa.Al-Saby@mit.gov.jo

Website:

<http://www.mit.gov.jo>

Facsimile:

(962) 65 682 331

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[JO](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JO&doc-lang=EN)

Jordan - Industrial Property Protection Directorate, Ministry of Industry,
Trade and Supply (Jordan)

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[JO](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JO&doc-lang=EN)

Jordan - Industrial Property Protection Directorate, Ministry of Industry,
Trade and Supply (Jordan)

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Patents

Patents of addition

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished later. If not already complied with
within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office
will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit
of two months from the date of the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Jordan

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3).

Arabic,

English

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Same language as the international application (Arabic or English)

Language in which the request may be filed:

Arabic,

English

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notifications by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 13 July 2017, pages 106 _et seq._ and 28 July 2022, page
197.

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies both the “unintentional” and the “due care” criteria
to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

1,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

2

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

100 JOD

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

235 USD

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

352 USD

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(AT)  
Annex D(AU)  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(US)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

filing by a company or an organization 100 JOD

filing by an individual 50 JOD

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

filing by a company or an organization 50 JOD

filing by an individual 25 JOD

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Jordan  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any patent attorney or patent agent registered to practice before the Office

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Not applicable

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Not applicable

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

At the time of filing, either in the description or separately

— any additional indications:

None

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, a description of the characteristics
and an indication of the usefulness of the microorganism and/or other
biological material

Additional information

Deposits may also be made for the purposes of patent procedure before the
Industrial Property Protection Directorate, Ministry of Industry, Trade and
Supply (Jordan) with any depositary institution.

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Arabic

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Where the applicant furnishes a translation of the international application
only as amended or only as originally filed, the Office will invite the
applicant to furnish the missing translation

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

A copy is required only if the Office has not received a copy of the
international application from the International Bureau under PCT Article 20.
This may be the case where the applicant expressly requests an earlier start
of the national phase under PCT Article 23(2) or 40(2).

National fees:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Filing fee

filing by a company or an organization 200 JOD

filing by an individual 100 JOD

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application 3 4 5

Evidence of entitlement to apply for or be granted a patent 3 4 5

Evidence of entitlement to claim priority of earlier application 3 4 5

Document evidencing a change of name of the applicant if the change occurred
after the international filing date

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in Jordan 4

Instrument appointing the agent (authorization or power of attorney) 4

Verification of the translation of the international application

Furnishing, where applicable, of a nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence
listing in electronic form

Who can act as agent?

Any patent attorney or patent agent registered before the Office

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies both the “unintentional” and the “due care” criteria
to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

JO.01 TRANSLATION

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as originally
filed (refer to National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

JO.02 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex JO.I.

JO.03 APPOINTMENT OF AN AGENT

JPR Art. 10(f)  
If the applicant does not reside in Jordan, a patent attorney or patent agent
registered to practice before the Office must be appointed. If the applicant
is represented by an agent, a power of attorney is required.

JO.04 EXAMINATION

JPR Art. 20  
A patent will be granted only after substantive examination. There is no need
for a special request for examination. The Registrar will send an invitation
to the applicant requesting him to pay the fee for examination of the
invention within 60 days from the date of the invitation. Please refer to the
Office for the amount of the examination fee.

JO.05 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION

JPL Art. 9  
Amendments may be made in the national phase up to the grant of the patent,
provided that the scope of the subject matter of the application is not
broadened thereby.

JO.06 PUBLICATION AND GRANT FEE

JPR Art. 23(a)  
A publication fee must be paid after preliminary acceptance of the
application. The Office will invite the applicant to pay the publication fee
within 60 days from the date of the invitation. Where the applicant fails to
pay the fee within that time limit, the application shall be considered as
null and void. The amount of the fee is indicated in Annex JO.I.

JPR Art. 25(a)  
A fee for grant must be paid before the patent is granted. The amount of the
fee is indicated in Annex JO.I.

JO.07 ANNUAL FEES

JPR Art. 32  
For PCT applications, annual fees must be paid for maintaining the patent in
force. In case of non-payment of the annual fees at the prescribed time limit,
payment can still be made, upon payment of a 50% surcharge for late payment,
within a period of six months from the date of expiration of the prescribed
time limit. The amounts of these fees are indicated in Annex JO.I.

JO.08 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase.

JO.09 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2),  PCT Rule 82 _bis_  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.

JO.10 REINSTATEMENT OF RIGHTS

PCT Rule 49.6  
Reinstatement of rights may be requested where the applicant, unintentionally
or in spite of due care required by the circumstances having been taken,
failed to perform the acts referred to in Article 22 within the applicable
time limit. A request for reinstatement must be presented in writing within
two months from the removal of the cause of the failure to observe the time
limit or twelve months from the date of expiration of the applicable time
limit, whichever time limit expires earlier. Within the said two months, the
omitted action must be completed and the fee for reinstatement of rights
(refer to Annex JO.I) must be paid.

##  Annexes

Annex JO.I - Fees

Patents

Filing fee

filing by a company or an organization 200 JOD

filing by an individual 100 JOD

Fee for furnishing the name or address of the inventor

filing by a company or an organization 50 JOD

filing by an individual 25 JOD

Fee for addition, change or cancellation of a record of an application or
patent

filing by a company or an organization 50 JOD

filing by an individual 25 JOD

Fee for furnishing evidence of entitlement to apply for or be granted a patent

filing by a company or an organization 50 JOD

filing by an individual 25 JOD

Fee for transfer of ownership

filing by a company or an organization 50 JOD

filing by an individual 25 JOD

Examination fee

filing by a company or an organization 200 JOD

filing by an individual 100 JOD

Grant fee

filing by a company or an organization 200 JOD

filing by an individual 150 JOD

Fee for restoration of the right of priority

filing by a company or an organization 50 JOD

filing by an individual 25 JOD

Fee for any correction request

filing by a company or an organization 50 JOD

filing by an individual 25 JOD

Fee for any other request

filing by a company or an organization 100 JOD

filing by an individual 50 JOD

Annual fees

— for the 1st year

filing by a company or an organization 150 JOD

filing by an individual 100 JOD

— for the 2nd year

filing by a company or an organization 250 JOD

filing by an individual 150 JOD

— for the 3rd year

filing by a company or an organization 350 JOD

filing by an individual 200 JOD

— for the 4th year

filing by a company or an organization 450 JOD

filing by an individual 250 JOD

— for the 5th year

filing by a company or an organization 550 JOD

filing by an individual 300 JOD

— for the 6th year

filing by a company or an organization 650 JOD

filing by an individual 350 JOD

— for the 7th year

filing by a company or an organization 750 JOD

filing by an individual 400 JOD

— for the 8th year

filing by a company or an organization 850 JOD

filing by an individual 450 JOD

— for the 9th year

filing by a company or an organization 950 JOD

filing by an individual 500 JOD

— for the 10th year

filing by a company or an organization 1,050 JOD

filing by an individual 550 JOD

— for the 11th year

filing by a company or an organization 1,150 JOD

filing by an individual 600 JOD

— for the 12th year

filing by a company or an organization 1,250 JOD

filing by an individual 650 JOD

— for the 13th year

filing by a company or an organization 1,350 JOD

filing by an individual 700 JOD

— for the 14th year

filing by a company or an organization 1,450 JOD

filing by an individual 750 JOD

— for the 15th year

filing by a company or an organization 1,550 JOD

filing by an individual 800 JOD

— for the 16th year

filing by a company or an organization 1,650 JOD

filing by an individual 850 JOD

— for the 17th year

filing by a company or an organization 1,750 JOD

filing by an individual 900 JOD

— for the 18th year

filing by a company or an organization 1,850 JOD

filing by an individual 950 JOD

— for the 19th year

filing by a company or an organization 1,950 JOD

filing by an individual 1,000 JOD

— for the 20th year

filing by a company or an organization 2,050 JOD

filing by an individual 1,050 JOD

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of the fees has to be effected in Jordanian dinars. All payments
must indicate the application number (national, if already known;
international, if the national application number is not yet known), the name
of the applicant and the category of fee being paid. Payments may be effected
to the Office in cash or by cheque.

Forms

Please refer to the Office.

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office or the Austrian Patent Office.  
2 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office.  
3 ^ a b c This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration
has been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  
4 ^ a b c d e If not already complied with within the time limit applicable
under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply
with the requirement within a time limit of two months from the date of
receipt of the invitation.  
5 ^ a b c The Office will charge a fee for compliance with that requirement in
response to the invitation (refer to Annex JO.I).  

Change(s) as of 1 March 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

  

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

235 USD

  

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

352 USD

  

Close

Current version applicable from 1 Mar 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

