####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * ISA
  * IPEA
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
JP - Useful informationJP - International PhaseJP - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationJP - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeJP - Annex D - International Searching AuthorityJP - Annex E -
International Preliminary Examining AuthorityJP - Annex L - Deposits of
Microorganisms and Other Biological MaterialJP - National PhaseJP - Summary of
requirements for entry into the national phaseJP - The procedure in the
national PhaseJP - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide JP - Japan  
Japan Patent Office (JPO)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **25 January 2024**

(published on 26 January 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
Deletion of reference to IP5 Collaborative Search and Examination project  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 1 Jan 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for JP - Japan Patent Office \(JPO\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Japan Patent Office (JPO)

DA: Design Act of Japan

PA: Patent Act of Japan

PR: Patent Regulations under the Patent Act of Japan

UMA: Utility Model Act of Japan

Art.: Article

List of currencies used in this document:

CHF (Swiss franc), EUR (Euro), JPY (Japanese yen), KRW (Korean won), SGD
(Singapore dollar), USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=JP).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Rule 23 _bis_.2(e), Rule 4.9(b) , Administrative Instructions under the PCT
(AI) Section 703(f) (re. Section 703(b)(ii) to (iv) insofar as those
provisions relate to Sections 5.1 and 5.2.1 of Annex F of AI and Sections 2(d)
to (g) of Appendix III of Annex F of AI:)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Japan

Two-letter code:

[JP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JP&doc-lang=EN)

Japan - Japan Patent Office (JPO)

Name of Office:

Japan Patent Office (JPO)

Location:

3-4-3 Kasumigaseki  
Chiyoda-ku  
Tokyo 100-8915  
Japan

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(81-3) 3592 13 08

E-mail:

PA1A31@jpo.go.jp

Website:

<http://www.jpo.go.jp/e/index.html>

Facsimile:

PCT Affairs  
(81-3) 3501 06 59  
Filing of documents  
(81-3) 3501 68 03

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

Only documents needed to receive an international filing date under PCT
Article 11

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

No, only upon invitation

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes, provided the delivery service satisfies the prescribed criteria and is
approved by the Minister for Internal Affairs and Communications, under the
Japanese Law Concerning Correspondence Delivery Provided by Private-Sector
Operators. A list of approved delivery services (in Japanese) is available at
the following web site:  
<http://www.soumu.go.jp/yusei/tokutei_g.html>

Does the Office excuse delays in meeting time limits due to the unavailability
of electronic means of communication (PCT Rule 82 _quater_.2(a))?

Yes, the Office excuses a delays in meeting a time limits where such delay is
caused by the special maintenance or unavailability of permitted electronic
means of communication at the Office , provided that the duration of such
maintenance or unavailability is at least 24 hours, and that the respective
action is performed on the next working day on which the said electronic means
of communication became available

Information concerning maintenance and unavailability of the JPO online filing
software (in Japanese) is available at: <http://dl-
sv1.pcinfo.jpo.go.jp/docs/error/server_status.html>

For the relevant notification by the Office refer to the Official Notices (PCT
Gazette) dated 17 September 2020, page 191

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

Yes, the Office is prepared to allow applicants to make national applications
available to the WIPO DAS

For further details on how to request this Office to make applications
available to DAS, refer to
<https://www.jpo.go.jp/e/system/process/shutugan/yusen/das/index.html>

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[JP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JP&doc-lang=EN)

Japan - Japan Patent Office (JPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

[JP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JP&doc-lang=EN)

Japan - Japan Patent Office (JPO)

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Patents

Utility models

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

The applicant is entitled to the rights analogous to those provided under
Section 65 of the Patent Law from the time of the international publication of
the international application if the international publication is in Japanese
and from the time of the publication of a Japanese translation by the Japan
Patent Office (JPO) if the international publication is in a language other
than Japanese (refer to Sec. 184-10 of the Patent Law).

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If not already complied with within the time limit
applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant
to comply with the requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation
(refer to the Summary).

Are there special provisions concerning earlier national applications from
which priority is claimed and what are the effects of these provisions?

Articles 41 and 42 of the Japan Patent Law and Articles 8 and 9 of the Japan
Utility Model Law provide that the filing of an international application
which contains the designation of Japan and claims the priority of an earlier
national application having effect in Japan shall have the result that the
earlier national application will be considered withdrawn after the expiration
of 16 months from the filing date of that earlier application. If the
applicant of an international application which claims the priority of an
earlier national application wants to avoid this effect, the designation of
Japan will have to be withdrawn before the expiration of 16 months from the
filing date of that earlier application, in order to avoid automatic
withdrawal of the earlier-filed national application

The period is applicable to international applications filed on or after 1
April 2015. The period is 15 months for international applications filed
before 1 April 2015

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Japan

Language in which international applications may be filed:

English,

Japanese

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

English,

or English and any other language

Language in which the request may be filed:

English,

Japanese

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts XML files with JPEGs as well as TIFFs for the drawings
filed using JPO PAS

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C
of the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no additional fees are due for sequence listings filed in
this format.

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 9 September 2022, pages 246 _et seq._

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies the “unintentional” criterion to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

1,

[IN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IN&doc-lang=EN)

India - Indian Patent Office

1,

[JP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JP&doc-lang=EN)

Japan - Japan Patent Office (JPO)

,

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

1

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

2,

[IN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IN&doc-lang=EN)

India - Indian Patent Office

,

[JP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JP&doc-lang=EN)

Japan - Japan Patent Office (JPO)

2,

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

2

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

17,000 JPY

This fee is reduced if the application is filed in Japanese by applicants who
are eligible for fee reductions, such as small or medium-sized enterprises,
micro enterprises and academic institutions. For further details on the
eligibility, refer to
<https://www.jpo.go.jp/system/process/tesuryo/genmen/genmen20190401/document/index/leaflet_e.pdf>

International filing fee:

217,700 JPY

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

2,500 JPY

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

49,100 JPY

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(IN)  
Annex D(JP)  
Annex D(SG)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

1,400 JPY

Fee for transmitting copies of earlier search and other documents (PCT Rule 12
_bis_.1(c)):

1,700 JPY

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Japan  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any patent attorney or attorney-at-law resident in Japan, or any firm
registered to practice before the Office

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Where an agent or a common representative who is not indicated on the request
form at the time of filing performs any action after filing; or in case of
doubt as to the agent’s entitlement to act.

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Where an agent or a common representative who is not indicated on the request
form at the time of filing performs any action after filing; or in case of
doubt as to the agent’s entitlement to act.

##  Annex D - International Searching Authority

International Searching Authority competent for the following Receiving
Offices:

[BN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BN&doc-lang=EN)

Brunei Darussalam - Brunei Darussalam Intellectual Property Office (BruIPO)

,

[ID](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ID&doc-lang=EN)

Indonesia - Directorate General of Intellectual Property (Indonesia)

,

[IN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IN&doc-lang=EN)

India - Indian Patent Office

,

[JP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JP&doc-lang=EN)

Japan - Japan Patent Office (JPO)

,

[KH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KH&doc-lang=EN)

Cambodia - Department of Industrial Property (DIP), Ministry of Industry,
Science, Technology and Innovation (MISTI) (Cambodia)

,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[MY](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MY&doc-lang=EN)

Malaysia - Intellectual Property Corporation of Malaysia

,

[PH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PH&doc-lang=EN)

Philippines - Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines

,

[SA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SA&doc-lang=EN)

Saudi Arabia - Saudi Authority for Intellectual Property (SAIP)

,

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

,

[TH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TH&doc-lang=EN)

Thailand - Department of Intellectual Property (DIP) (Thailand)

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

,

[VN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=VN&doc-lang=EN)

Viet Nam - Intellectual Property Office of Viet Nam (IP Viet Nam)

Search fee (PCT Rule 16):

— For international applications filed in Japanese or for which a translation
into Japanese has been furnished under PCT Rule 12.3. This fee is reduced for
applications by applicants who are eligible for fee reductions, such as small
or medium-sized enterprises, micro enterprises and academic institutions. For
further details on the eligibility, refer to
<https://www.jpo.go.jp/system/process/tesuryo/genmen/genmen20190401/document/index/leaflet_e.pdf>

874 CHF

907 EUR

143,000 JPY

1,304,000 KRW

955 USD

— For international applications filed in English or for which a translation
into English has been furnished under PCT Rule 12.3

1,033 CHF

1,072 EUR

169,000 JPY

1,549 SGD

1,129 USD

This fee is payable to the receiving Office in the currency or one of the
currencies accepted by it.

Additional search fee (PCT Rule 40.2):

— For international applications filed in Japanese or for which a translation
into Japanese has been furnished under PCT Rule 12.3. This fee is reduced for
applications by applicants who are eligible for fee reductions, such as small
or medium-sized enterprises, micro enterprises and academic institutions. For
further details on the eligibility, refer to:  
<https://www.jpo.go.jp/system/process/tesuryo/genmen/genmen20190401/document/index/leaflet_e.pdf>

105,000 JPY

— For international applications filed in English or for which a translation
into English has been furnished under PCT Rule 12.3

168,000 JPY

This fee is payable to the International Searching Authority and only in
particular circumstances.

Fee for copies of documents cited in the international search report (PCT Rule
44.3):

per request 1,400 JPY

How to obtain copies:

The applicant receives, together with the international search report, a copy
of each document containing non-patent literature cited in the report, free of
charge

Requests for copies of documents should be made using the relevant form
available at:  
<https://www.jpo.go.jp/system/patent/pct/tetuzuki/document/tokkyo_jyouyaku-
jitumu/22.pdf#page=63>

Protest fee (PCT Rule 40.2(e)):

None

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rule 13 _ter_.1(c)):

None

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the search fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded

Upon request where the Authority benefits from one of the following earlier
searches to a considerable extent:

(i) where, the international application claims the priority of an earlier
international application which has been the subject of an international
search made by the Authority, the international search of the earlier
international application

(ii) the earlier search of a Japanese national application for a patent or for
a utility model registration which was filed by the same applicant as that of
the international application

— For international applications filed in Japanese or for which a translation
into Japanese has been furnished under PCT Rule 12.3. This fee is reduced for
applications by applicants who are eligible for fee reductions, such as small
or medium-sized enterprises, micro enterprises and academic institutions. For
further details on the eligibility, refer to:  
<https://www.jpo.go.jp/system/process/tesuryo/genmen/genmen20190401/document/index/leaflet_e.pdf>

Refund of 67,000 JPY

The amount of the refund of the search fee is reduced where the fee reduction
for the search fee was applied

— For international applications filed in English or for which a translation
into English has been furnished under PCT Rule 12.3

Refund of 57,000 JPY

Languages accepted for international search:

The following languages are accepted:  
– Japanese or English for international applications filed with the Japan
Patent Office as a receiving Office;  
– English or a translation under PCT Rule 12.3 into English from other
accepted languages for international applications filed with the receiving
Office of Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, the
Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, the United States of America and Viet Nam;  
– Japanese or a translation under PCT Rule 12.3 into Japanese from Korean or
English for international applications filed with the receiving Office of the
Republic of Korea, or Japanese or a translation under PCT Rule 12.3 into
Japanese from any other languages for international applications filed with
the International Bureau as a receiving Office (RO/IB) acting for the Republic
of Korea; and  
– Japanese, English or a translation under PCT Rule 12.3 into Japanese or
English from any other languages for international applications filed with
RO/IB acting for Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, India, Indonesia, Japan, Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand,
the United States of America and Viet Nam

English,

Japanese

Does the Authority accept informal comments on earlier search results where an
international application claims priority from an earlier application already
searched by this Authority?

No

Types of physical media accepted for the furnishing of nucleotide and/or amino
acid sequence listings:

Diskette,

CD-R,

DVD-R

Subject matter that will not be searched:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 39.1 with the
exception of any subject matter which is searched under the patent grant
procedure in accordance with the provisions of the Japanese Patent Act, and
methods for treatment of the human body by surgery or therapy, as well as
diagnostic methods

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Where an agent or a common representative who is not indicated in the request
form at the time of filing performs any actions after filing; or in case of
doubt as to the agent’s entitlement to act.

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Where an agent or a common representative who is not indicated in the request
form at the time of filing performs any actions after filing; or in case of
doubt as to the agent’s entitlement to act.

##  Annex E - International Preliminary Examining Authority

The Japan Patent Office (JPO) may act as International Preliminary Examining
Authority only if the international search is or has been performed by that
Office.

International Preliminary Examining Authority competent for the following
Receiving Offices:

[BN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BN&doc-lang=EN)

Brunei Darussalam - Brunei Darussalam Intellectual Property Office (BruIPO)

,

[ID](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ID&doc-lang=EN)

Indonesia - Directorate General of Intellectual Property (Indonesia)

,

[IN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IN&doc-lang=EN)

India - Indian Patent Office

,

[JP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JP&doc-lang=EN)

Japan - Japan Patent Office (JPO)

,

[KH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KH&doc-lang=EN)

Cambodia - Department of Industrial Property (DIP), Ministry of Industry,
Science, Technology and Innovation (MISTI) (Cambodia)

,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[MY](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MY&doc-lang=EN)

Malaysia - Intellectual Property Corporation of Malaysia

,

[PH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PH&doc-lang=EN)

Philippines - Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines

,

[SA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SA&doc-lang=EN)

Saudi Arabia - Saudi Authority for Intellectual Property (SAIP)

,

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

,

[TH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TH&doc-lang=EN)

Thailand - Department of Intellectual Property (DIP) (Thailand)

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

,

[VN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=VN&doc-lang=EN)

Viet Nam - Intellectual Property Office of Viet Nam (IP Viet Nam)

Preliminary examination fee (PCT Rule 58):

— This fee is reduced for :  
(i) applications filed in Japanese or  
(ii) applications for which translations into Japanese have been furnished,
for the purposes of International Search under PCT Rule 12.3, by applicants
who are eligible for fee reductions, such as small or medium-sized
enterprises, micro enterprises and academic institutions. For further details,
refer to
<https://www.jpo.go.jp/system/process/tesuryo/genmen/genmen20190401/document/index/leaflet_e.pdf>

34,000 JPY

— For preliminary examinations carried out in English

69,000 JPY

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority

Additional preliminary examination fee (PCT Rule 68.3):

— This fee is reduced for :  
(i) applications filed in Japanese or  
(ii) applications for which translations into Japanese have been furnished,
for the purposes of International Search under PCT Rule 12.3, by applicants
who are eligible for fee reductions, such as small or medium-sized
enterprises, micro enterprises and academic institutions. For further details,
refer to
<https://www.jpo.go.jp/system/process/tesuryo/genmen/genmen20190401/document/index/leaflet_e.pdf>

28,000 JPY

— For preliminary examinations carried out in English

45,000 JPY

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority and
only in particular circumstances

Handling fee (PCT Rule 57.1):

32,700 JPY

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority. It
is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee for copies of documents cited in the international preliminary examination
report (PCT Rule 71.2):

per request 1,400 JPY

How to obtain copies:

The applicant receives, together with the international preliminary
examination report a copy of each document containing non-patent literature
not cited in the international search report, free of charge

Requests for copies of documents should be made using the relevant form
available at:  
<https://www.jpo.go.jp/system/patent/pct/tetuzuki/document/tokkyo_jyouyaku-
jitumu/22.pdf#page=63>

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.2):

per request 1,400 JPY

Protest fee (PCT Rule 68.3(e)):

None

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rule 13 _ter_.2):

None

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the preliminary examination fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded

In the cases provided for under PCT Rule 58.3:  
refund of 100%

If the international application or the demand is withdrawn before the start
of the international preliminary examination:  
no refund

Languages accepted for international preliminary examination:

The following languages are accepted:  
\- Japanese or English for international applications filed with the Japan
Patent Office as a receiving Office;  
\- English or a translation under PCT Rule 12.3 into English from other
accepted languages for international applications filed with the receiving
Office of Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, the
Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, the United States of America and Viet Nam;  
\- Japanese or a translation under PCT Rule 12.3 into Japanese from Korean or
English for international applications filed with the receiving Office of the
Republic of Korea, or Japanese or a translation under PCT Rule 12.3 into
Japanese from any other languages for international applications filed with
the International Bureau as a receiving Office (RO/IB) acting for the Republic
of Korea; and  
\- Japanese, English or a translation under PCT Rule 12.3 into Japanese or
English from any other languages for international applications filed with
RO/IB acting for Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, India, Indonesia, Japan, Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand,
the United States of America and Viet Nam.

English,

Japanese

Subject matter that will not be examined:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 67.1 with the
exception of any subject matter which is examined under the patent grant
procedure in accordance with the provisions of the Japanese Patent Act, and
methods for treatment of the human body by surgery or therapy, as well as
diagnostic methods

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Where an agent or a common representative who is not indicated in the request
form at the time of filing performs any actions after filing; or in case of
doubt as to the agent’s entitlement to act

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Where an agent or a common representative who is not indicated in the request
form at the time of filing performs any actions after filing; or in case of
doubt as to the agent’s entitlement to act

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

At the time of filing (must be in the description) (furnishing of the date of
deposit of the biological material is not necessary)

— any additional indications:

At the time of filing (must be in the description)

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, relevant information on the
characteristics of the biological material

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

The time limit for submission of the Japanese translation of the international
application is 30 months from the priority date (under PCT Article 22(1) or
39(1)(a)). This time limit may be extended under certain circumstances (refer
to paragraph JP.03)

Where the international application was filed in Japanese, a copy of any
amendments under PCT Articles 19 and 34 may be required, if the communication
under Article 20 has not taken place within the time limit applicable under
Article 22(1) or 39(1)(a) or if an express request for early processing was
filed under Article 23(2)

Japanese

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Where no translation of amendments is filed, the amendments are considered not
to have been made. However, amendments may be made as specified in paragraph
JP.13 of the JP national chapter

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, as originally filed or
as amended, or both as originally filed and as amended, at applicant’s
option), any text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

If not already paid within the applicable time limit under PCT Article 22(1)
or 39(1)(a), the Office will invite the applicant to pay the national fee
within a time limit fixed in the invitation. Where the translation of the
international application is submitted in paper form, a special fee for
conversion into electronic format is required

Patents

Filing fee

14,000 JPY

Utility models

Filing fee

14,000 JPY

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

The fee for request for examination is reduced where an international search
report has been established. Moreover, reductions are available to
individuals, small and medium-sized enterprises, micro enterprises, academic
institutions and certain other entities (refer to Annex JP.I)

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

When the applicant is a legal entity, indication of the name of an officer
representing that entity (the indication of such a name is not required where
the legal entity is represented by a patent attorney) 3

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in Japan 4

Where the person, the name or the residence of the applicant is changed during
the international phase and the change has not been reflected in the
international publication or in a Notification of the Recording of a Change
(Form PCT/IB/306), a statement indicating the change (preferably on a special
request form) and, in case of a change in the person of the applicant, a
document evidencing the change 5

Where a change (addition and/or deletion) in the person of the inventor during
the international phase has not been reflected in the international
publication or in a Notification of the Recording of a Change (Form
PCT/IB/306), the correct indications relating to the inventor (preferably on a
special transmittal form (Form 53)), a statement explaining the reasons for
the change and a written oath of all inventors 5

Furnishing, where applicable, of a nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence
listing in electronic form

Who can act as agent?

Any patent attorney, attorney-at-law or other person resident in Japan, or
firm registered to practice before the Office

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies the “unintentional” criterion to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

JP.01 FORMS FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

PA Art. 184-5  
The Office has available a special transmittal form (Form No. 53) for entering
the national phase (refer to Annex JP.II). This form should preferably (but
need not) be used when effecting the payment of the national fee (refer to
paragraph JP.06) and for furnishing the translation of the international
application into Japanese. Any document required for entry into the national
phase may be submitted in paper form or online in electronic format. However,
any document submitted in paper form will be converted by the Office into
electronic format and subjected to the payment of a special fee (refer to
Annex JP.I).

JP.02 RELEVANT TIME FOR NATIONAL PROCESSING

PA Art. 184-4  
The relevant time for national processing occurs:

(i) on the date of the expiration of 30 months from the priority date,

(ii) at the time of filing of the request for examination, if filed on or
before the date of (i) (refer to also JP.10).

JP.03 TRANSLATION (LATE FURNISHING OF)

PCT Art. 22,  PCT Art. 39(1),  PA Art. 184-4(1)  
The time limit for filing the Japanese translation of the international
application is 30 months from the priority date. Where Form No. 53 (refer to
Annex JP.II) is submitted within two months before the expiration of 30 months
from the priority date, that is, during the period from the beginning of the
29th month to the end of the 30th month from the priority date, the
translations may be filed within two months from the date of submission of
Form No. 53.

JP.04 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

PA Art. 17-2(2),  PA Art. 184-12(2)  
Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

JP.05 TRANSLATION (COPY) OF AMENDMENTS UNDER PCT ARTICLES 19 AND 34

PA Art. 184-4(2),  PA Art. 184-6(3),  PA Art. 184-7(1),  PA Art. 184-7 (2),
PA Art. 184-7 (3),  PA Art. 184-8  
Where the international application has not been filed in Japanese and
amendments have been filed under PCT Article 19 or 34, the applicant should
furnish a translation of such amendments into Japanese using Form No. 52 (for
amendment under PCT Article 19, refer to Annex JP.III) or Form No. 54 (for
amendments under PCT Article 34, refer to Annex JP.IV) no later than the date
on which the relevant time for national processing occurs (refer to paragraph
JP.02). Where the international application has been filed in Japanese and
amendments have been filed under PCT Article 19 or 34, the applicant should
furnish a copy of such amendments using the relevant Form No. 54 no later than
the date on which the relevant time for the national processing occurs unless
the Office has received them from the International Bureau under PCT Article
20 or 36. Any amendments for which the applicant fails to submit a
translation, or a copy, within the applicable time limit, shall not be taken
into consideration by the Office.

JP.06 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex JP.I.

JP.07 PRIORITY DOCUMENT

PCT Rule 17.1(c),  PR Rule 38-14  
Where the priority document has not been furnished in compliance with PCT Rule
17.1(a), (b) or (b-_bis_), the applicant in the national phase has an
opportunity to furnish the priority document to the Office within 32 months
from the priority date.

JP.08 APPOINTMENT OF AGENT

PCT Rule 90,  PA Art. 8,  PA Art. 184-11(1),  PA Art. 184-11(2),  PA Art.
184-11(3),  PA Art. 184-11(4),  PA Art. 184-11(5),  PR Rule 2(2)  
A person who has neither his domicile nor residence in Japan may not proceed
except through his representative with respect to his patent who has his
domicile or residence in Japan. If the applicant is not resident in Japan,
appointment of an agent and filing of a power of attorney is necessary. Where
the applicant filed any documents not through an agent, the Office sends to
the applicant an invitation to appoint one. If the applicant fails to appoint
one within two months from the date of mailing of the said invitation from the
Office, the applications shall be deemed to have been withdrawn. Where the
power of attorney is in a language other than Japanese, a Japanese translation
is required. A model is given in Annex JP.VII (page 1 in English translation,
page 2 in Japanese).

JP.09 REQUEST FOR EXAMINATION

PA Art. 48-2,  PA Art. 48-4  
Patentability will be examined only after request by the applicant or by a
third party. The request for examination must be made in Japanese on Form No.
44 (refer to Annex JP.V).

JP.10 TIME LIMIT FOR REQUESTING EXAMINATION

PA Art. 48-3,  PA Art. 184-17  
Examination must be requested within three years from the international filing
date. Such request can only be made once all requirements for entry into the
national phase have been complied with. The request for examination is
considered by the Office as a request for early entry into the national phase
if it is made before the expiration of the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1).

PA Art. 48-3(5),  PA Art. 48-3(6),  PA Art. 48-3(7),  PA Art. 48-3(8),  PA
Art. 184-11(1)  
Where the applicant unintentionally failed to file a request for examination
within three years from the international filing date, he/she may still do so
within two months from the date on which the applicant is able to request
examination or 12 months from the date of expiration of the time limit,
whichever time limit expires earlier.

Requests for restoration must be made in writing, setting out the reasons for
the failure to comply with the time limit, and the restoration fee in the
amount indicated in Annex JP.I must be paid.

Applicants are to provide the explanation that the delay was not intended to
delay the request for examination. Applicants may be requested to submit any
documents to support their reasons if the Commissioner of the Office finds it
necessary.

Applicants domiciled overseas who wish to file a request for examination after
the prescribed period has expired must submit the request for examination
(Form No. 44), together with a document stating the reasons for the late
submission and must pay the restoration fee (for the amount, refer to Annex
JP.I) through an agent domiciled or resident in Japan.

JP.11 FEE FOR REQUESTING EXAMINATION

PA Art. 195(2)  
The request for examination is only effective if the fee for requesting
examination has been paid. The amount of the fee is indicated in Annex JP.I.

JP.12 ANNUAL FEES

PA Art. 107,  PA Art. 108,  PA Art. 112  
Annual fees for the 1st to the 3rd year shall all be paid at the same time,
within 30 days after receipt of the decision to grant a patent.

In order to maintain the right after the 4th year, the annual fees subsequent
to the 4th year shall be paid within 3 years from the registration date. Each
subsequent annual fee shall likewise be paid during the validity period “NOT
the term of right ends” (e.g., for patent with registration date of 1 April
2022, payment of the 4th year annual fee must be effected by 1 April 2025.

Payment can still be made, together with a 100% surcharge for late payment,
before the expiration of 6 months from the due date. The amounts of the annual
fees are indicated in Annex JP.I.

JP.13 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  PA Art. 184-12(1),  PA Art. 17(2),  PA Art. 17-2  
Amendments may be made to the description, claims or drawings, after the
relevant time for national processing has occurred (refer to JP.02) and after
Form No. 53 and any required translations of the international application
have been filed and the national fee has been paid, within the following
period:

(i) before the applicant receives either the decision to grant a patent or the
first notice of reasons for refusal;

(ii) within a time limit designated in a non-final notice of reasons for
refusal;

(iii) within a time limit designated in a final notice of reasons for refusal;
or

(iv) where the applicant has filed an appeal against the examiner’s decision
of refusal, at the time of filing of the appeal.

Amendments shall not go beyond the extent of disclosure in the international
application as originally filed. In addition, within the period (iii) or (iv),
above, claims may be amended only to the extent that additional prior art
search is not necessary.

JP.14 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51,  PA Art. 184-20,  PR Rule 38-7,  PR Rule 38-9  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. The request to the Office should be filed with Form No. 55
(refer to Annex JP.VI). If, upon review under PCT Article 25, the Office
denies an error or omission on the part of the receiving Office or the
International Bureau, an administrative appeal against this denial may be
lodged within 60 days from the receipt of the denial. The Commissioner of the
Office will then decide on the appeal.

JP.15 UTILITY MODEL

PCT Art. 4(3),  PCT Art. 43,  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1(a),  PCT Rule 76.5,  UMA
Art. 48-5(1)  
Subject to what is said in paragraph JP.16, if the applicant wishes to obtain
a utility model instead of a patent in Japan, on the basis of an international
application, the applicant, on entry into the national phase, shall so
indicate to the Office.

JP.16

PCT Art. 7(2)(ii),  PCT Rule 7.2,  UMA Art. 48-7  
Where, in the case referred to in paragraph JP.15, the international
application does not contain drawings, the applicant must furnish the
drawing(s) no later than the date on which the relevant time for national
processing occurs (refer to paragraph JP.02). Where the applicant does not
furnish the drawing(s) within that time limit, the Office will invite him to
furnish the drawing(s) within a time limit fixed in the invitation. Where an
international application for a patent is converted into a utility model
application (refer to paragraph JP.19), the drawing(s) must be submitted with
the request for conversion.

JP.17

UMA Art. 14(2),  UMA Art. 32  
Utility models are registered without any substantive examination thereof in
the national phase.

The other requirements for the national phase and the procedures thereafter
are basically the same as for patents except that the fees for utility models
and registration fees from the first to the third year must be paid instead of
the fees for patents. If the applicant desires his utility model to be
registered earlier than the expiration of the time limit for entry into the
national phase, he may file an express request for an early commencement of
the national procedures under PCT Articles 23(2) and 40(2).

JP.18

UMA Art. 48-8  
In addition to amendments under PCT Articles 19 and 34, amendments under PCT
Article 28 or 41 are allowed to an international application for a utility
model. The amendment in this case shall be made within the scope of the matter
disclosed in the international application as originally filed (or translated
into Japanese, also refer to paragraph JP.03).

JP.19 CONVERSION

PA Art. 46,  PA Art. 46-2,  PA Art. 184-16,  UMA Art. 10,  UMA Art. 48-11,  DA
Art. 13  
An international application for a patent or utility model may be converted
into the other kind of application or a design application by filing a request
for conversion once the applicant has complied with the requirements for entry
into the national phase.

The conversion of a patent application into a utility model application may be
requested either:

(i) within nine years and six months from the international filing date; or

(ii) within three months from the transmittal of the first decision of the
Office that the patent application shall be refused.

The conversion of a utility model application into a patent application may be
requested, under certain circumstances, within three years from the
international filing date.

The conversion of a patent application into a design application may be
requested within three months from the transmittal of the first decision of
the Office that the patent application shall be refused.

The conversion of a utility model application into a design application may be
requested at any time.

The conversion is subject to payment of a fee for conversion as indicated in
Annex JP.I. The original application for a patent or a utility model shall be
deemed to have been withdrawn after the conversion of the application.

JP.20 NUCLEOTIDE AND/OR AMINO ACID SEQUENCES

PR Rule 38-13-2(1), PR Rule 38-13-2(2), PR Rule 27-5(10)  
Where the international application in a language other than Japanese contains
nucleotide and/or amino acid sequences which is not accompanied by a sequence
listing complying with WIPO Standard ST.26 or the free text contained in said
sequence listing is not written in English, a diskette, CD-R or DVD-R
containing coded data of the sequence listing must be furnished together with
the transmittal form (Form No. 53) or the translation of the international
application.

Where the international application in Japanese contains nucleotide and/or
amino acid sequences which is not accompanied by a sequence listing complying
with WIPO Standard ST.26 or the free text contained in said sequence listing
is not written in English, in addition to the transmittal form (Form No. 53),
the form for submission of documents (Form No.22) which identifies the
international application concerned must be furnished together with:

(i) a diskette, CD-R or DVD-R containing coded data of the sequence listing;
and

(ii) a statement that the sequences recorded on the diskette, CD-R or DVD-R
are identical to those disclosed in the description, claims, or drawings of
the international application as originally filed.

In this case, matters recorded on the diskette, CD-R or DVD-R shall not be
deemed to be matters stated in the description attached to the international
application.

JP.21 RESTORATION OF THE RIGHT OF PRIORITY

PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1,  PCT Rule 49 _ter_.2,  PCT Rule 76.5,  PA Art. 41(1)(i),
PA Art. 43-2(1),  PA Art. 43-2(2),  PA Art. 184-11(1),  PR Rule 27-4-2(1),  PR
Rule 27-4-2(1)(2),  PR Rule 38-14(3),  PR Rule 38-14(4),  PR Rule 38-14(5),
PR Rule 38-14(6),  PR Rule 38-14-2  
For international Applications whose priority period has expired on or after 1
April 2023, restoration of the right of priority may be requested where the
applicant unintentionally failed to file the international application within
the priority period, but within two months from the expiration of the priority
period.

The request must be filed with the Office within one month from the expiration
of the time limit to submit Form No. 53 (that is, the 30th month from the
priority date, or if the application has not been filed in Japanese and Form
No. 53 was filed during the period from the beginning of the 29th month to the
end of the 30th month from the priority date, within two months from the date
of submission of Form No. 53). Requests for restoration must be made in
writing, setting out the reasons for the failure to file the international
application within the priority period, and the restoration fee in the amount
indicated in Annex JP.I must be paid. Applicants may be requested to submit
any documents to support their reasons if the Commissioner of the Office finds
it necessary. Where the request for examination is made before the expiration
of the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the request for
restoration of the right of priority must be filed and the restoration fee
must be paid (for the amount, refer to Annex JP.I) within one month from the
date of filing of the request for examination.

Any decision on restoration of the right of priority by the receiving Office,
which was based on a finding by it that the failure to file the international
application within the priority period occurred unintentionally, will be
effective, unless the Office reasonably doubts that a requirement referred to
in PCT Rule 49 _ter_. 1 (c) was complied with. In such an exceptional case,
the Office shall notify the applicant accordingly, indicating the reasons
therefo

Applicants domiciled overseas who wish to request restoration of the right of
priority must submit a document stating the reasons for the request and pay
the restoration fee (for the amount, refer to Annex JP.I) through an agent
domiciled or resident in Japan.

JP.22 REINSTATEMENT OF RIGHTS

PCT Art. 48(2),  PCT Rule 49.6,  PA Art. 184-4(3),  PA Art. 184-4(4),  PA Art.
184-4(5),  PA Art. 184-11(4),  PA Art. 184-11(5),  PR Rule 38-2  
Reinstatement of rights may be requested either where the applicant
unintentionally failed to furnish a translation of the international
application into Japanese within 30 months from the priority date or where the
applicant unintentionally failed to appoint the agent within two months from
the date of mailing of the invitation from the Office. A request for
reinstatement must be made to the Office within two months from the date on
which the applicant is available for the procedures or twelve months from the
date of expiration of the time limit, whichever time limit expires earlier.

Requests for restoration must be made in writing, setting out the reasons for
the failure to comply with the time limit and the restoration fee in the
amount indicated in Annex JP.I must be paid. Within the said time limit, the
omitted action must be completed. Applicants may be requested to submit any
documents to support their reasons if the Commissioner of the Office finds it
necessary.

Applicants domiciled overseas who intend to request reinstatement of rights
must submit the translation and pay the restoration fee (for the amount, refer
to Annex JP.I) through an agent domiciled or resident in Japan.

Even if the application is reinstated by the Office, the time limit for
requesting examination remains three years from the international filling date
(refer to paragraph JP.10).

##  Annexes

Annex JP.I - Fees

Patents

National fee

14,000 JPY

National fee for request for review

14,000 JPY

Fee for request for examination (for international applications filed before 1
April 2019): 6

(a) where no international search report has been established:

118,000 JPY

plus, for each claim 4,000 JPY 7

(b) where the international search report has been established by the Office:

71,000 JPY

plus, per claim 2,400 JPY

(c) where the international search report has been established by an
International Searching Authority other than the Office:

106,000 JPY

plus, per claim 3,600 JPY

(d) where the search report has been established by a searching organization
which is designated under Japanese law:

94,000 JPY

plus, per claim 3,200 JPY

Fee for request for examination (for international applications filed on or
after 1 April 2019): 6

(a) where no international search report has been established:

138,000 JPY

plus, for each claim 4,000 JPY 7

(b) where the international search report has been established by the Office:

83,000 JPY

plus, per claim 2,400 JPY

(c) where the international search report has been established by an
International Searching Authority other than the Office:

124,000 JPY

plus, per claim 3,600 JPY

(d) where the search report has been established by a searching organization
which is designated under Japanese law:

110,000 JPY

plus, per claim 3,200 JPY

Fee for conversion of documents into electronic format

2,400 JPY

plus, per sheet 800 JPY

Annual fees (per year): 6

— International applications for which an examination is requested on or after
1 April 2004

— for the 1st to the 3rd years

4,300 JPY

plus, per claim 300 JPY

— for the 4th to the 6th years

10,300 JPY

plus, per claim 800 JPY

— for the 7th to the 9th years

24,800 JPY

plus, per claim 1,900 JPY

— for the 10th to the 25th years

59 ,400 JPY

plus, per claim 4,600 JPY

— International applications filed on or after 1 January 1988, and for which
an examination was requested on or before 31 March 2004

— for the 1st to the 3rd years

10,300 JPY

plus, per claim 900 JPY

— for the 4th to the 6th years

16,100 JPY

plus, per claim 1,300 JPY

— for the 7th to the 9th years

32,200 JPY

plus, per claim 2,500 JPY

— for the 10th to the 25th years

64,400 JPY

plus, per claim 5,000 JPY

Fee for application for registration of extension of patent right 8

74,000 JPY

Fee for conversion:

— of a utility model application

14,000 JPY

— of a design application

16,000 JPY

Fee for requesting restoration

212,100 JPY

Utility models

National fee

14,000 JPY

National fee for request for review

14,000 JPY

Fee for conversion of documents into electronic format

2,400 JPY

plus, per sheet 800 JPY

Fee for conversion:

— of a patent application

15,000 JPY

— of a design application

16,000 JPY

Fee for technical opinion

(a) where no international search report has been established

42,000 JPY

plus, per claim 1,000 JPY

(b) where the international search report has been established by the Office

8,400 JPY

plus, per claim 200 JPY

(c) where the international search report has been established by an
International Searching Authority other than the Office

33,600 JPY

plus, per claim 800 JPY

Annual fees (per year):

— International applications filed on or after 1 April 2005

— for the 1st to the 3rd years

2,100 JPY

plus, per claim 100 JPY

— for the 4th to the 6th years

6,100 JPY

plus, per claim 300 JPY

— for the 7th to the 10th years

18,100 JPY

plus, per claim 900 JPY

Fee for requesting restoration

21,800 JPY

How can payment of fees be effected?

Payment of the national fee to the Office has to be made in Japanese Yen, by
means of patent revenue stamps. The patent revenue stamps can be purchased at
major Japan Post Co., Ltd. offices in Japan. The necessary amount of stamps
must be affixed to the related form.

Some other payment methods, such as the advance payment system, bank account
transfer or online cash transfer, may be available provided that the applicant
or their representative in Japan has carried out the necessary registration
proceedings at the Office in advance

In principle, the Office does not accept any payments made directly by
overseas residents, such as payment by international bank account transfer, or
by credit card or by check, therefore, payment by an applicant overseas has to
be made through a representative appointed in Japan

However, in the case of patent annuity fees for the 4th year onwards, direct
payment by bank account transfer or patent revenue stamps is available for
overseas residents. For detailed instructions please refer to:  
<http://www.jpo.go.jp/e/system/process/tesuryo/160401_renewing_outside.html>

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex JP.II - Form No. 53: Transmittal form (related to PR Rule
38-4)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_jp.pdf)

[Annex JP.III - Form No. 52: Submission of a translation of an amendment under
Article 19 (related to PR Rule
38-2)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_jp.pdf)

[Annex JP.IV - Form No. 54: Submission of a translation of an amendment under
Article 34 (related to PR Rule
38-6)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_IV_jp.pdf)

[Annex JP.V - Form No. 44: Request for examination of application (related to
PR Rule 31-2)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_V_jp.pdf)

[Annex JP.VI - Form No. 55: Request for review (related to PR Rule
38-8)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_VI_jp.pdf)

[Annex JP.VII - Power of
attorney](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_VII_jp.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a b c The Office is competent only if the international application is
filed in English (PCT Rule 12.3 does not apply).  
2 ^ a b c The Office is competent only if the international search is or has
been carried out by that Office.  
3 ^ a If not already complied with, no later than the date on which the
relevant time for national processing occurs (refer to paragraph JP.02 of the
JP national chapter), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.  
4 ^ a Must be appointed within two months from the date of mailing of the
invitation from the Office (refer to paragraph JP.08).  
5 ^ a b Must be furnished no later than the date on which the relevant time
for national processing occurs (refer to paragraph JP.02 of the JP national
chapter); if not furnished, the Office will invite the applicant to comply
with the requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.  
6 ^ a b c Fee reductions may apply for certain applicants such as small and
medium-sized enterprises, micro enterprises, and academic institutions. For
further details on the eligibility, refer to
<https://www.jpo.go.jp/system/process/tesuryo/genmen/genmen20190401/document/index/leaflet_e.pdf>  
7 ^ a b Hereinafter referred to as “per claim”.  
8 ^ a The patent term, which is 20 years from the filing date, may be extended
by up to five years where there is a period during which patent owners have
been unable to work their inventions due to the regulations under the laws
(where the subject matter of the inventions relates to human or animal drugs
or to agricultural chemicals), provided that the application for registration
of extension of the term of the patent right is filed.  

Change(s) as of 25 January 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

Close

Current version applicable from 25 Jan 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

