####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
KE - Useful informationKE - International PhaseKE - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationKE - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeKE - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialKE - National PhaseKE - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseKE - The procedure in the national PhaseKE - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide KE - Kenya  
Kenya Industrial Property Institute

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **1 March 2024**

(published on 1 February 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
RO: RO fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 1 Jan 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for KE - Kenya Industrial Property Institute)).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Kenya Industrial Property Institute

KPL: Industrial Property Act of Kenya

KR: Regulations under the Industrial Property Act of Kenya

List of currencies used in this document:

KES (Kenyan shilling), USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=KE).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Kenya

Two-letter code:

[KE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KE&doc-lang=EN)

Kenya - Kenya Industrial Property Institute

Name of Office:

Kenya Industrial Property Institute

Location:

KIPI Centre  
17 Kabarsiran Avenue  
Off Waiyaki Way  
Lavington  
Nairobi  
Kenya

Mailing address:

P.O. Box 51648-00200  
Nairobi  
Kenya

Telephone:

(254-20) 600 22 10  
(254-20) 600 22 11  
(254-20) 600 63 26  
(254-20) 600 63 29  
(254-20) 600 63 36  
(254-20) 238 62 20  
Mobile phone :  
(254-70) 200 20 20  
(254-73) 600 20 20

E-mail:

info@kipi.go.ke

Website:

<http://www.kipi.go.ke>

Facsimile:

None

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by e-mail

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes, within one month from the date of the transmission, if the transmitted
document is the international application or a replacement sheet containing
corrections or amendments of the international application

No, only upon invitation in the case of other documents

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

provided that the delivery service is:  
DHL  
Sky Courier International

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[AP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AP&doc-lang=EN)

African Regional Intellectual Property Organization - African Regional
Intellectual Property Organization (ARIPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[KE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KE&doc-lang=EN)

Kenya - Kenya Industrial Property Institute

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: KE

ARIPO protection: AP

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents

Utility models

ARIPO:

Patents

Utility models (a utility model may be sought instead of or in addition to an
ARIPO patent)

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

Section 43 of the Industrial Property Act, 2001

Provisional protection after international publication:

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a national patent:

Relief may be sought in respect of acts committed before the grant of the
patent but after the date on which international publication was effected in
English. Where the international publication was effected in a language other
than English, relief may be sought provided that the applicant had transmitted
an English translation of the international publication to the infringer and
only in respect of acts committed by the latter after he had received the
translation.

Where the designation is made for the purposes of an ARIPO patent:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

For national protection

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If not already complied with within the time limit
applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant
to comply with the requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

For an ARIPO patent

Refer to [Annex B(AP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=AP&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Kenya

Language in which international applications may be filed:

English

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

The Office has not specifically notified the International Bureau of the
language that it accepts under PCT Rule 12.1(d).

Same as above

Language in which the request may be filed:

English

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

3

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 21 February 2019, pages 31 _et seq._

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C
of the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
If the receiving Office does not accept international applications in
electronic form in such format, the international application will be
transmitted to the International Bureau as receiving Office (PCT Rule
19.4(a)(ii-_bis_)).

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies the “unintentional” criterion to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[CN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CN&doc-lang=EN)

China - China National Intellectual Property Administration (CNIPA)

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[SE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SE&doc-lang=EN)

Sweden - Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[CN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CN&doc-lang=EN)

China - China National Intellectual Property Administration (CNIPA)

1,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

2,

[SE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SE&doc-lang=EN)

Sweden - Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee: 3

5,000 KES

or 250 USD

plus cost of mailing

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

235 USD

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

352 USD

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(AU)  
Annex D(AT)  
Annex D(CN)  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(SE)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)): 3

2,000 KES

or 100 USD

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)): 3

1,000 KES

or 50 USD

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Kenya  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any person registered to practice before the Office. A list of registered
agents may be obtained from the Office.

Waiver of power of attorney:

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Refer to the Office

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Refer to the Office

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

None

— any additional indications:

None

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, relevant information on the
characteristics of the microorganism

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

English

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, as amended only,
together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any text matter of
drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, only as amended by the
annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

The applicant should only send a copy of the international application if he
has not received Form PCT/IB/308 and the Office has not received a copy of the
international application from the International Bureau under PCT Article 20.
This may be the case where the applicant expressly requests an earlier start
of the national phase under PCT Article 23(2).

National fees: 3

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Patents

National processing fee:

3,000 KES

or 150 USD

Annual fee for the 2nd year:

Late payment of annual fees is permitted in certain circumstances subject to
the payment of a surcharge

2,000 KES

or 300 USD

Utility models

National processing fee:

1,000 KES

or 50 USD

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in Kenya

Furnishing, where applicable, of a nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence
listing in electronic form

Who can act as agent?

Any person registered to practice before the Office. A list of registered
agents may be obtained from the Office.

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies the “unintentional” criterion to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

KE.01 FORM FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

The Office has available a special form for entering the national phase (refer
to Annex KE.II). This form should preferably (but need not ) be used.

KE.02 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

KE.03 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex KE.I.

KE.04 EXAMINATION

KPL Sec. 44,  KR Sec. 28  
The Office may subject the application to search and/or examination by
competent authorities upon the request of the applicant and upon payment of a
fee, the amount of which is indicated in Annex. KE.I.

KE.05 REPRESENTATION

KPL Sec. 34(2),  KPL Sec. 34(3),  34(4)  
Where the ordinary residence or principal place of business of the applicant
is outside Kenya, the appointment of an agent who is a citizen of Kenya and is
registered to practice before the Office must be indicated for the purposes of
national processing. This may be done on the form, a model of which is given
in Annex KE.II.

KE.06 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  KPL Sec. 36,  KR Sec. 20  
The applicant may amend or correct the claims, description, and drawings in
the international application at any time before the grant of the patent,
provided that the scope of the subject matter of the application is not
broadened thereby.

KE.07 ANNUAL FEES

KPL Sec. 61,  KR Sec. 38  
For the due date of the first annual fee, refer to the Summary. A grace period
of six months is granted for the payment of the annual fee upon payment of a
surcharge. Where the applicant fails to pay the annual fee, the surcharge or
both within the six month grace period he may, within a period of six months
from the expiration of that grace period, apply to the Managing Director of
the Office for the restoration of the patent or the application upon payment
of the prescribed fee. The amounts of the annual fees and of the restoration
fee are indicated in Annex KE.I.

KE.08 PATENT TERM

KPL Sec. 60  
The patent term expires at the end of 20 years from the filing date.

KE.09 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2),  PCT Rule 82 _bis_ ,  KR Sec. 76  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase. The
Managing Director of the Office may, in his discretion, excuse the delay in
meeting any time limit subject to such terms and conditions as he considers
appropriate.

KE.10 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51,  PCT Rule 82 _ter_ ,  KR Sec. 33(1)  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. Where an international application designating Kenya is
considered withdrawn or alleged to have been refused a filing date on account
of an error or omission by the receiving Office or the International Bureau,
the applicant may request the Managing Director of the Office to treat the
international application as a national application. Such request should be
accompanied by a statement of facts.

KE.11 APPEALS

KPL Sec. 47,  KPL Sec. 112,  KPL Sec. 113,  KPL Sec. 114,  KPL Sec. 115  
If, upon review under PCT Article 25, the Office denied an error or omission
on the part of the receiving Office or the International Bureau, an appeal
against this decision may be lodged with the Office. Appeals against a
decision of the Managing Director are made to the Industrial Property
Tribunal. Decisions of the Tribunal may be appealed to the High Court of Kenya
and from there to the Court of Appeal.

KE.12 UTILITY MODEL

KPL Sec. 81  
If the applicant wishes to obtain a utility model instead of a patent in Kenya
on the basis of an international application, it must be indicated in the
international application (in Box V of the request) when filed. The fees
relating to utility models are indicated in Annex KE.I.

KE.13 CONVERSION

KPL Sec. 83  
The applicant may at any time before grant or refusal of a patent convert an
application for a patent into an application for a utility model and _vice
versa_.

##  Annexes

Annex KE.I - Fees

Fees are payable in USD if the person paying the fees or on whose behalf the
fees are being paid does not reside in Kenya and does not have a principal
place of business in Kenya

Patents

National processing fee

3,000 KES

150 USD

Request for substantive examination

5,000 KES

250 USD

Fee for amendment or division of an application

2,000 KES

100 USD

Fee for amendment of application (change in name, address or other contact
information)

1,000 KES

50 USD

Fee for request for extension of time

1,000 KES

50 USD

Fee for publication

3,000 KES

150 USD

Annual fees:

— from the 2nd year to the 7th year

per year 2,000 KES

per year 300 USD

— for the 8th year

6,000 KES

300 USD

— for the 9th year

7,000 KES

350 USD

— for the 10th year

8,000 KES

400 USD

— for the 11th year

10,000 KES

500 USD

— for the 12th year

12,000 KES

600 USD

— for the 13th year

14,000 KES

700 USD

— for the 14th year

16,000 KES

800 USD

— for the 15th year

18,000 KES

900 USD

— for the 16th year

20,000 KES

1,000 USD

— for the 17th year

30,000 KES

1,500 USD

— for the 18th year

35,000 KES

1,750 USD

— for the 19th year

40,000 KES

2,000 USD

— for the 20th year

50,000 KES

2,500 USD

Surcharge for late payment of annual fees

3,000 KES

150 USD

Fee for restoration of an application or a patent

6,000 KES

300 USD

Fee for restoration of the right of priority

1,000 KES

50 USD

Utility models

National processing fee

1,000 KES

50 USD

Fee for amendment or division of an application

500 KES

50 USD

Fee for amendment of application (change in name, address or other contact
information)

500 KES

50 USD

Fee for request for extension of time

500 KES

50 USD

Fee for publication

3,000 KES

150 USD

Annual fees for a utility model certificate:

— for the 2nd year

1,500 KES

75 USD

— for the 3rd year

2,000 KES

100 USD

— for the 4th year

2,500 KES

125 USD

— for the 5th year

3,000 KES

150 USD

— for the 6th year

3,500 KES

175 USD

— for the 7th year

4,000 KES

200 USD

— for the 8th year

4,500 KES

225 USD

— for the 9th year

5,000 KES

250 USD

— for the 10th year

5,500 KES

275 USD

Surcharge for late payment of annual fees

3,000 KES

150 USD

Fee for restoration of a utility model application or registration

2,000 KES

100 USD

Fee for restoration of the right of priority

500 KES

50 USD

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of fees to the Office must be effected in Kenyan shilling or US
dollars. Payment of fees can be made by bank deposit or check (clearing in
Kenya). All payments must give the application number (national if already
known; international if the national number is not yet known).

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex KE.II - National processing request
form](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_ke.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office.  
2 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office, by the Austrian Patent Office or by the Swedish
Intellectual Property Office (PRV).  
3 ^ a b c d This fee is payable in USD if the person paying the fee or on
whose behalf the fee is being paid does not reside in Kenya and does not have
a principal place of business in Kenya.  

Change(s) as of 1 March 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

  

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

235 USD

  

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

352 USD

  

Close

Current version applicable from 1 Mar 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

