####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
KG - Useful informationKG - International PhaseKG - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationKG - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeKG - National PhaseKG - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseKG - The procedure in the national PhaseKG - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide KG - Kyrgyzstan  
State Agency of Intellectual Property and Innovation under the Cabinet of
Ministers of the Kyrgyz Republic (Kyrgyzpatent)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **1 March 2024**

(published on 1 February 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
RO: RO fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 1 Jan 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for KG - State Agency of Intellectual Property and Innovation under the
Cabinet of Ministers of the Kyrgyz Republic \(Kyrgyzpatent\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: State Agency of Intellectual Property and Innovation under the Cabinet
of Ministers of the Kyrgyz Republic (Kyrgyzpatent)

KPL: Kyrgyz Patent Law 2

List of currencies used in this document:

EUR (Euro), KGS (Kyrgyz som), USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=KG).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Article 64(5)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Kyrgyzstan

Two-letter code:

[KG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KG&doc-lang=EN)

Kyrgyzstan - State Agency of Intellectual Property and Innovation under the
Cabinet of Ministers of the Kyrgyz Republic (Kyrgyzpatent)

Name of Office:

State Agency of Intellectual Property and Innovation under the Cabinet of
Ministers of the Kyrgyz Republic (Kyrgyzpatent)

Location:

62 Moskovskaya Street  
Bishkek 720021  
Kyrgyzstan

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(996-312) 68 08 19  
(996-312) 68 10 71

E-mail:

info@patent.kg  
inter@patent.kg

Website:

<http://patent.kg>

Facsimile:

(996-312) 68 17 03

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes, within 14 days from the date of the transmission, if the transmitted
document is the international application or a replacement sheet containing
corrections or amendments of the international application

No, only upon invitation in the case of other documents

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

provided that the delivery service is:  
DHL

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

Applicants may file with the Eurasian Patent Office or with the International
Bureau only if the national security provisions allow filing of patent
applications abroad

[EA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EA&doc-lang=EN)

Eurasian Patent Organization - Eurasian Patent Office (EAPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[KG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KG&doc-lang=EN)

Kyrgyzstan - State Agency of Intellectual Property and Innovation under the
Cabinet of Ministers of the Kyrgyz Republic (Kyrgyzpatent)

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: KG

Eurasian patent: EA

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents

Utility models

Eurasian:

Patents

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

For national protection

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If the data concerning the inventor are missing at the
expiration of the time limit under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will
invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit of two
months from the date of receipt of the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

No

For a Eurasian patent

Refer to [Annex B(EA)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=EA&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Kyrgyzstan

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3).

English,

Russian

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

The Office has not specifically notified the International Bureau of the
language that it accepts under PCT Rule 12.1(d).

Same as above

Language in which the request may be filed:

English,

Russian

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

2

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 22 October 2020, pages 217 _et seq._

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C
of the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
If the receiving Office does not accept international applications in
electronic form in such format, the international application will be
transmitted to the International Bureau as receiving Office (PCT Rule
19.4(a)(ii-_bis_)).

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies both the “unintentional” and the “due care” criteria
to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EA&doc-lang=EN)

Eurasian Patent Organization - Eurasian Patent Office (EAPO)

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EA&doc-lang=EN)

Eurasian Patent Organization - Eurasian Patent Office (EAPO)

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

1,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

This fee is reduced by 90% if the applicant is an individual. This amount does
not include the postage/mailing costs which must be paid by the applicant
directly to the express delivery service (e.g. DHL). For non-residents of
Kyrgyzstan, the equivalent amount of the fee can be paid in a freely
convertible currency, in accordance with the exchange rate established by the
National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic and applicable on the date of payment
(Resolution of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic of 3 October 2016, No.
523)

4,000 KGS

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

235 USD

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

352 USD

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EA)  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(RU)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

None

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

For non-residents of Kyrgyzstan, the equivalent amount of the fee can be paid
in euro or US dollar in accordance with the exchange rate established by the
National Bank of Kyrgyzstan and applicable on the date of payment

3,500 KGS

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Kyrgyzstan  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any person registered to practice before the Office as patent attorney

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Not applicable

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

None

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(3): 31 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or
39(1)

Kyrgyz,

Russian

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or
39(1)

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, as amended only,
together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any text matter of
drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, only as amended by the
annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

For non-residents of Kyrgyzstan, the equivalent amount of the fees can be paid
in euro or US dollar in accordance with the exchange rate established by the
National Bank of Kyrgyzstan and applicable on the date of payment

Filing and provisional examination fee 3

8,000 KGS

or equivalent in EUR or USD

Claim fee for each independent claim in excess of one 3

1,500 KGS

or equivalent in EUR or USD

Examination fee 4

15,000 KGS

or equivalent in EUR or USD

Claim examination fee for each independent claim in excess of one 4

7,500 KGS

or equivalent in EUR or USD

Renewal fee for the 3rd year

8,500 KGS

or equivalent in EUR or USD

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

Fees are reduced by 90% where the applicant is a natural person or a non-
commercial organization. Participants in the Great Patriotic War or persons
equated to them, as well as persons with “Group 1” disabilities are exempted
from the payment of fees.

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit of two months from the date of receipt of the
invitation

Instrument of assignment of the priority application where the applicants are
not identical 5

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in Kyrgyzstan

Who can act as agent?

Any person registered to practice before the Office as patent attorney

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies both the “unintentional” and the “due care” criteria
to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

KG.01 FORMS FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

The Office has no special form for entering the national phase.

KG.02 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

KG.03 PRIORITY DOCUMENT (TRANSLATION)

PCT Rule 17.2(a)  
The Office requires the applicant to furnish a translation of the priority
document into Russian or Kyrgyz only in certain cases where required for the
examination. If not already furnished, the Office will invite the applicant to
furnish a translation of the priority document within a time limit which shall
be fixed in the invitation.

KG.04 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex KG.I.

KG.05 REQUEST FOR EXAMINATION

KPL Art. 23  
The Office examines patent applications. At the request of the applicant, the
Office will examine the application with or without conducting examination as
to substance. The request for examination must be filed within 30 months from
the date of entry into the national phase. If the request is not filed within
the prescribed time limit, the application is considered withdrawn.

KG.06 REPRESENTATION

KPL Art. 17  
An applicant must be represented before the Office if he is not resident in
Kyrgyzstan. Any applicant may be represented by a patent attorney authorized
to practice before the Office and the address for service should normally be
that of a registered patent attorney. A list of registered patent attorneys is
available upon request from the Office and on the Office’s website at:
<http://patent.kg/en/attorneys/>.

KG.07 FEE FOR GRANT

KPL Art. 28  
A fee for grant must be paid within two months after receipt by the applicant
of the decision to grant the patent. Where the applicant fails to pay the fee
within that time limit, he can make this payment, together with a prescribed
surcharge for late payment, within three months from the date of the
expiration of the above-mentioned time limit.

KG.08 INVENTOR

The indication of the name and address of the inventor must be in the request
but may be furnished at a later stage. The Office will invite the applicant to
furnish the name and address of the inventor within two months from the date
of the receipt of the invitation.

KG.09 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  KPL Art. 22  
Within two months after entry into the national phase, the applicant has the
right to amend or correct any element of his international application on his
own initiative, without paying any fee for that purpose, provided that the
amendments or corrections do not modify the subject matter of the claimed
invention or utility model beyond the original disclosure. After the
expiration of the said time limit, such amendments or corrections may be made
only on payment of the prescribed fee and only until the final decision on the
results of the substantive examination.

KG.10 RENEWAL FEES

After a patent has been granted, a continuation (renewal) fee must be paid for
maintaining the patent in force. The first continuation fee is to be paid
simultaneously with payment of the fee for granting the patent. All subsequent
fees are to be paid before the beginning of the corresponding year. Payment
can still be made, upon application for extension of time together with the
payment of a corresponding fee, within six months from the final date. The
amounts of the annual fees and of the fees for late payment are indicated in
Annex KG.I.

KG.11 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2),  PCT Rule 82 _bis_  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase. Where,
during the international phase or before the Office, the applicant has missed
a time limit for performing any act in relation to the international
application, such time limit may be extended by the Office upon request by the
applicant and where justified.

KG.12 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase.

KG.13 UTILITY MODEL

PCT Art. 4(3),  PCT Art. 43,  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1,  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1(a),
PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1(b),  PCT Rule 76.5  
Where the applicant wishes to obtain a utility model, on the basis of an
international application, instead of a patent, the applicant, when performing
the acts referred to in Article 22 or 39, shall so indicate to the Office.

KG.14 CONVERSION

The applicant may, prior to publication of a patent application, convert the
said application into a utility model application by filing a request to that
effect. The utility model application may be converted into a patent
application at any time before the decision to grant is taken. The converted
application shall have the priority date of the initial application.

##  Annexes

Annex KG.I - Fees

For non-residents of Kyrgyzstan, the equivalent amount of the fees can be paid
in euro or US dollar in accordance with the exchange rate established by the
National Bank of Kyrgyzstan and applicable on the date of payment

Filing and provisional examination fee

8,000 KGS

— plus, for each additional invention

1,500 KGS

Examination fee:

15,000 KGS

— claim examination fee for each independent claim in excess of one

7,500 KGS

The examination fee is reduced by 25% where an international search report has
been established and by 50% where an international preliminary examination
report has been established

Reinstatement fee for each delayed month up to 12 months from the expiry date

3,000 KGS

Conversion fee:

— for a utility model application into a patent application

3,500 KGS

— for a patent application into a utility model application

2,000 KGS

Fee for grant and publication of description up to 35 pages

5,000 KGS

— for each page in excess of 35

500 KGS

Renewal fees for patents:

— for the 3rd year

8,500 KGS

— for the 4th year

10,500 KGS

— for the 5th year

12,500 KGS

— for the 6th year

14,000 KGS

— for the 7th year

17,000 KGS

— for the 8th year

21,000 KGS

— for the 9th and 10th years, per year

25,000 KGS

— for the 11th and 12th years, per year

33,500 KGS

— for the 13th, 14th and 15th years, per year

50,500 KGS

— for the 16th, 17th and 18th years, per year

59,000 KGS

— for the 19th and 20th years, per year

67,000 KGS

Fee for restoration of the right of priority

3,500 KGS

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of fees should be effected in Kyrgyz som (KGS) or in equivalent
amounts in euro (EUR) or US dollar (USD). All payments must indicate the
application number (national, if already known; international, if the national
number is not yet known), the name of the applicant and the category of fee
being paid.

Fees in Kyrgyz som (KGS) must be paid to:

Beneficiary  
State Agency of Intellectual Property and Innovation under the Cabinet of
Ministers of the Kyrgyz Republic (Kyrgyzpatent)

Beneficiary bank  
Central Treasury of the Ministry of Finance of the Kyrgyz Republic

Account No.  
4402042100005341

BIC  
440001

Payment reference  
14511200

For non-residents of Kyrgyzstan, the equivalent amount of the fees in US
dollar must be paid to:

Beneficiary  
Central Treasury of the Ministry of Finance of the Kyrgyz Republic, State
Agency of Intellectual Property and Innovation under the Cabinet of Ministers
of the Kyrgyz Republic (Kyrgyzpatent)

Correspondence bank  
Federal Reserve Bank of New York  
New York  
US

SWIFT code  
FRNYUS33

USD account No.  
0210-8671-5

and the equivalent amount of the fees in euro must be paid to:

Correspondence bank  
Deutsche Bundesbank  
Frankfurt am Main

SWIFT code  
MARKDEFF

EUR account No.  
5040040042

Beneficiary bank  
National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic, Bishkek, Kyrgyz Republic

SWIFT code  
NBKIKG22

Account No.  
1013350100590106

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex KG.II - Power of
attorney](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_kg.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office.  
2 ^ a The text of the Kyrgyz Patent Law may be obtained on the Internet at
<http://patent.kg>  
3 ^ a b Must be paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or
39(1). The requirement may still be complied with within two months from the
expiration of that time limit, provided that a surcharge is paid.  
4 ^ a b A written request for examination must be made and the examination fee
simultaneously paid.  
5 ^ a This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with Rule 4.17.  

Change(s) as of 1 March 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

  

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

235 USD

  

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

352 USD

  

Close

Current version applicable from 1 Mar 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

