####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
KP - Useful informationKP - International PhaseKP - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationKP - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeKP - National PhaseKP - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseKP - The procedure in the national PhaseKP - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide KP - Democratic People's Republic of Korea  
Intellectual Property Administration (IPA) of the Democratic People’s Republic
of Korea

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **7 December 2023**

(published on 7 December 2023)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
Useful information: Useful information  
GENERAL INFO: Contact details, Various  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for KP - Intellectual Property Administration \(IPA\) of the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea)).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Intellectual Property Administration (IPA) of the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea

LI: Law on Inventions

RLI: Regulations under the Law on Inventions

List of currencies used in this document:

CHF (Swiss franc), EUR (Euro), KPW (North Korean Won)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=KP).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Democratic People's Republic of Korea

Two-letter code:

[KP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KP&doc-lang=EN)

Democratic People's Republic of Korea - Intellectual Property Administration
(IPA) of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea

Name of Office:

Intellectual Property Administration (IPA) of the Democratic People’s Republic
of Korea

Location:

Kinmaul Dong No. 1  
Bipa Street  
Moranbong District Pyongyang  
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(850-2) 18111/999 (ext. 381-8433)

E-mail:

ipa817@star-co.net.kp

Website:

None

Facsimile:

None

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by e-mail

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

No,

only the original power of attorney document must be furnished within three
months from the filing date of the international application

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[KP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KP&doc-lang=EN)

Democratic People's Republic of Korea - Intellectual Property Administration
(IPA) of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[KP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KP&doc-lang=EN)

Democratic People's Republic of Korea - Intellectual Property Administration
(IPA) of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Inventors’ certificates

Patents

Petty inventors’ certificates

Petty patents

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

Yes.

From such time as a translation has been made available to the public, by
laying open for public inspection as provided under Article 57 of the Law on
Inventions.

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If the data concerning the inventor are missing at the
expiry of the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office
will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit
of two months from the date of invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

No

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Democratic People's Republic of Korea

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3).

English,

French,

Korean,

Russian

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

3

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Information not yet available

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, please refer to the Office for the applicable criteria and/or any fee
payable for such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[CN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CN&doc-lang=EN)

China - China National Intellectual Property Administration (CNIPA)

,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[CN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CN&doc-lang=EN)

China - China National Intellectual Property Administration (CNIPA)

1,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

Equivalent in KPW of 50 CHF

International filing fee:

Equivalent in KPW of 1,330 CHF

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

Equivalent in KPW of 15 CHF

Search fee:

Equivalent in KPW of the search fee payable to the International Searching
Authority chosen by the applicant:  
Refer to  
Annex D(AT)  
Annex D(CN)  
Annex D(RU)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

Fee for copying and mailing costs

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any patent agent

Waiver of power of attorney:

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Refer to the Office

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Refer to the Office

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or
39(1). If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the translation may be filed within two months from the
expiration of that time limit, provided that the additional fee for late
furnishing of the translation has been paid

Korean

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or
39(1). If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the translation may be filed within two months from the
expiration of that time limit, provided that the additional fee for late
furnishing of the translation has been paid

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

If not already paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or
39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to pay the national fee within two
months from the date of invitation

Patents

Filing fee

Equivalent in KPW of 230 EUR

Additional fee for late furnishing of the translation, per month

Equivalent in KPW of 30 EUR

Inventor’s certificate

None

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit of two months from the date of invitation

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application 2

Inventor’s declaration 2

Assignment deed where the applicant is not the inventor 2

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea

Translation of the international application to be furnished in two copies

Who can act as agent?

Any patent agent

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, please refer to the Office for the applicable criteria and/or any fee
payable for such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

KP.01 TRANSLATION (LATE FURNISHING OF)

If the translation of the international application has not been furnished by
the applicant within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1),
the translation can still be furnished within a further period of three
months, provided that the additional fee for late furnishing of the
translation, indicated in the Summary, has been paid within those three
months.

KP.02 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

KP.03 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex KP.I.

KP.04 POWER OF ATTORNEY

A patent agent must be appointed by a power of attorney. A model is given in
Annex KP.IV.

KP.05 INVENTOR’S DECLARATION

For details, refer to the model for such declaration in Annex KP.II.
Legalization is not required. For time limits, refer to the Summary.

KP.06 ASSIGNMENT DEED

For details, refer to the model for such deed in Annex KP.III. Legalization is
not required. For time limits, refer to the Summary. If the applicant(s) has
(have) obtained the right to file the international application through the
intermediary of one or more other persons and not directly from the
inventor(s), the assignment deed(s) linking the inventor(s) and the
applicant(s) must be produced.

KP.07 ANNUAL FEES

LI Art. 26,  RLI Art. 40  
Once a decision is made to grant a patent, the applicant becomes liable to pay
to the Office an annual fee for each year following the international filing
date. The first payment of annual fees is due within three months after
receipt by the applicant of the decision that a patent will be granted and
must comprise the annual fees for each year which has lapsed after the
international filing date and the year during which the payment is made.
Payment for each of the subsequent years must be made within three months
before the anniversary of the international filing date on which the year
commences or, where a supplement for late payment is also paid, within six
months after the said anniversary. For the amount of these fees, refer to
Annex KP.I.

KP.08 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  RLI Art. 29  
Until the end of the examination procedure, the applicant may make amendments
to the description, claims and drawings, provided that the scope of the
subject matter of the application is not broadened thereby.

KP.09 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. If, upon review under PCT Article 25, the Office denies an
error or omission on the part of the receiving Office or the International
Bureau, an appeal against this decision may be lodged within two months from
the decision.

KP.10 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2)  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase. Where
the applicant has failed to observe a time limit in the proceedings, he may
request restoration of his rights; such a request must be presented in writing
and indicate the reason for missing the time limit; at the same time, the
omitted act must be completed.

KP.11 INVENTOR’S CERTIFICATE

PCT Art. 4(3),  PCT Art. 43,  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1,  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1(c),
PCT Rule 76.5  
Subject to what is said in paragraph KP.13, any desire of the applicant to
obtain, in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, on the basis of an
international application, an inventor’s certificate instead of a patent, must
have been indicated, for international applications filed before 1 January
2004, in the international application (in Box No. V of the request) when
filed; for international applications filed on or after 1 January 2004, since
the request form no longer provides for the furnishing of such an indication,
the applicant, when performing the acts referred to in PCT Article 22 or 39,
shall so indicate to the Office.

KP.12

The requirements for the national phase are basically the same as for patents,
except that no fees must be paid for an inventor’s certificate.

KP.13

LI Art. 32,  RLI Art. 49  
An international application for a patent or, once a patent has been granted,
that patent, may be converted into an application for an inventor’s
certificate or into an inventor’s certificate, upon entering the national
phase or at any time thereafter. Fees which have already been paid by the time
of filing the request for conversion will not be refunded.

##  Annexes

Annex KP.I - Fees

National (filing) fee

equivalent in KPW of 230 EUR

Published in PCT Gazette No. 28/2003, of 10 July 2003, page 15884

National procedure of PCT application

equivalent in KPW of 230 EUR

Published in PCT Gazette No. 28/2003, of 10 July 2003, page 15884

Request for extension of term (per month)

equivalent in KPW of 30 EUR

Registration:

— of assignment of rights

equivalent in KPW of 80 EUR

— of change or amendment

equivalent in KPW of 60 EUR

Filing an appeal

equivalent in KPW of 130 EUR

For granting patent

equivalent in KPW of 230 EUR

Annual fees (to be paid before the due date):

— for the 1st to the 3rd year (per year)

equivalent in KPW of 130 EUR

— for the 4th to the 6th year (per year)

equivalent in KPW of 170 EUR

— for the 7th to the 9th year (per year)

equivalent in KPW of 330 EUR

— for the 10th to the 12th year (per year)

equivalent in KPW of 400 EUR

— for the 13th to the 15th year (per year)

equivalent in KPW of 465 EUR

— for the 16th to the 20th year (per year)

equivalent in KPW of 600 EUR

How can payment of fees be effected?

Applicants who are foreign nationals or foreign entities must pay all fees
(including annual fees) through a patent attorney.

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex KP.II - Inventor’s
declaration](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_kp.pdf)

[Annex KP.III - Assignment
deed](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_kp.pdf)

[Annex KP.IV - Power of
attorney](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_IV_kp.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office.  
2 ^ a b c This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration
has been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  

Change(s) as of 7 December 2023 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for KP - Intellectual Property Administration \(IPA\) of the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea)).

  

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Intellectual Property Administration (IPA) of the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea

LI: Law on Inventions

RLI: Regulations under the Law on Inventions

  

  
Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental Organization

Name of Office:

Intellectual Property Administration (IPA) of the Democratic People’s Republic
of Korea

  

Location:

Kinmaul Dong No. 1  
Bipa Street  
Moranbong District Pyongyang  
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea

  

Telephone:

(850-2) 18111/999 (ext. 381-8433)

  

E-mail:

ipa817@star-co.net.kp

  

Facsimile:

None

  

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by e-mail

  

Close

Current version applicable from 7 Dec 2023 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

