####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * ISA
  * IPEA
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
KR - Useful informationKR - International PhaseKR - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationKR - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeKR - Annex D - International Searching AuthorityKR - Annex E -
International Preliminary Examining AuthorityKR - Annex L - Deposits of
Microorganisms and Other Biological MaterialKR - National PhaseKR - Summary of
requirements for entry into the national phaseKR - The procedure in the
national PhaseKR - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide KR - Republic of Korea  
Korean Intellectual Property Office

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **1 January 2024**

(published on 1 December 2023)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
ISA: ISA fees  
IPEA: IPEA fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for KR - Korean Intellectual Property Office)).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Korean Intellectual Property Office

PL: Patent Law of the Republic of Korea

ER: Enforcement Regulations under the Patent Law of the Republic of Korea

UML: Utility Model Law of the Republic of Korea

List of currencies used in this document:

AUD (Australian dollar), CHF (Swiss franc), EUR (Euro), KRW (Korean won), NZD
(New Zealand dollar), SGD (Singapore dollar), USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=KR).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Rule 20.8(a), Rule 20.8(a-_bis_), Rule 20.8(b) , Rule 20.8(b-_bis_), Rule 26
_bis_.3(j), Rule 4.9(b), Rule 49.6(f), Rule 49 _ter_.1(g), Rule 49 _ter_.2(h)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).  
PCT Rule 20.8(a-_bis_), The Offices (in their capacity as receiving Offices)
of the States listed in this table have notified the International Bureau (IB)
that new PCT Rules 20.5 _bis_(a)(ii) and 20.5 _bis_(d), are not compatible
and/or cannot be considered to be compatible with the national law applied by
the Office, or are deemed to have notified the IB of this incompatibility on
the basis of a notification made under PCT Rule 20.8(a) that remains in
effect.  
PCT Rule 20.8(b-_bis_), The Offices (in their capacity as designated Offices)
of the States listed in this table have notified the International Bureau (IB)
that PCT Rules 20.5 _bis_(a)(ii) and 20.5 _bis_(d), are not compatible and/or
cannot be considered to be compatible with the national law applied by the
Office, or are deemed to have notified the IB of this incompatibility on the
basis of a notification made under PCT Rule 20.8(b) that remains in effect.

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Republic of Korea

Two-letter code:

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

Name of Office:

Korean Intellectual Property Office

Location:

Government Complex-Daejeon  
189 Cheongsa-ro  
Seo-gu  
Daejeon 35208  
Republic of Korea

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(82-42) 481 87 70 (RO)  
(82-42) 481 57 41 (ISA/IPEA)

E-mail:

RO  
kipopct@korea.kr  
ISA/IPEA  
isa.kipo@korea.kr

Website:

<http://www.kipo.go.kr>

Facsimile:

(82-42) 472 34 73 (RO)  
(82-42) 481 85 78 (ISA/IPEA)

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents except the translation to be furnished under PCT
Article 22 or 39

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

No, only upon invitation

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

Also refer to Annexes D and E

Yes

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

Yes, the Office is prepared to allow applicants to make national applications
available to the WIPO DAS

For further details on how to request this Office to make applications
available to DAS refer to
<https://www.patent.go.kr/smart/jsp/ka/menu/support/main/WipoAccessCodeHelp.do>

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Patent Act, Art. 41

Applies to applications which may be of interest for national defense

Yes

Filing restrictions apply to:

Applications by residents

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Patents

Utility models

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

After the applicant has filed a translation of the international application
into Korean and paid the national fee, the translation will be laid open for
public inspection. The applicant may, after the laying open of the application
and following a warning by the applicant in the form of a document describing
the contents of the invention claimed in the application, require a person who
has commercially worked the invention, after the warning but before the
registration of the patent right, to pay in compensation a sum of money
equivalent to what he would normally be entitled to receive for the working of
the invention if it were a patented invention.

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished later. If not already complied with
within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office
will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time fixed
in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning earlier national applications from
which priority is claimed and what are the effects of these provisions?

Article 56 of the Korean Patent Law provides that the filing of an
international application which contains the designation of the Republic of
Korea and claims the priority of an earlier national application for the grant
of a patent or a utility model having effect in the Republic of Korea shall
have the result that the earlier national application will be considered
withdrawn 15 months after the filing date of the earlier national patent
application, provided that this shall not apply where that earlier application
falls under any of the following subparagraphs:

(i) where the earlier application has been abandoned, invalidated or withdrawn

(ii) where a decision or a trial decision to grant or refuse a patent or a
utility model registration has become final and conclusive; or

(iii) where priority claims based on the earlier application concerned have
been withdrawn

If the applicant of an international application which claims the priority of
an earlier national application wants to avoid this effect, pursuant to PCT
Rule 4.9(b), the applicant may exclude the Republic of Korea from the
automatic designation or, with respect to the earlier national patent
application, may consider to withdraw the designation of the Republic of Korea
subsequently to the filing of the international application but before the
expiration of 15 months from the priority date

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Republic of Korea

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3).

English,

Japanese,

Korean

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

English (recommended),

Korean,

or both

Language in which the request may be filed:

English,

Japanese,

Korean

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

3

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-filing or PCT-SAFE in XML

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 28 September 2017, pages 139 _et seq._

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
If the receiving Office does not accept international applications in
electronic form in such format, the international application will be
transmitted to the International Bureau as receiving Office (PCT Rule
19.4(a)(ii-_bis_)).

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

No

Competent International Searching Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[JP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JP&doc-lang=EN)

Japan - Japan Patent Office (JPO)

1,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[JP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JP&doc-lang=EN)

Japan - Japan Patent Office (JPO)

2,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

2

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

45,000 KRW

International filing fee:

1,330 CHF

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

15 CHF

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

300 CHF

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(AT)  
Annex D(AU)  
Annex D(JP)  
Annex D(KR)  
Annex D(SG)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

None

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in the Republic of Korea  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any registered patent attorney or legal representative

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Not applicable

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Not applicable

##  Annex D - International Searching Authority

International Searching Authority competent for the following Receiving
Offices:

[AE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AE&doc-lang=EN)

United Arab Emirates - International Center for Patent Registration, Ministry
of Economy (United Arab Emirates)

,

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[BN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BN&doc-lang=EN)

Brunei Darussalam - Brunei Darussalam Intellectual Property Office (BruIPO)

,

[CL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CL&doc-lang=EN)

Chile - National Institute of Industrial Property (Chile)

,

[CO](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CO&doc-lang=EN)

Colombia - Superintendence of Industry and Commerce (Colombia)

,

[CV](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CV&doc-lang=EN)

Cabo Verde - Institute for Quality Management and Intellectual Property
(IGQPI) (Cabo Verde)

,

[ID](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ID&doc-lang=EN)

Indonesia - Directorate General of Intellectual Property (Indonesia)

,

[KH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KH&doc-lang=EN)

Cambodia - Department of Industrial Property (DIP), Ministry of Industry,
Science, Technology and Innovation (MISTI) (Cambodia)

,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[LA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=LA&doc-lang=EN)

Lao People's Democratic Republic - Department of Intellectual Property,
Ministry of Science and Technology (Lao People's Democratic Republic)

,

[LK](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=LK&doc-lang=EN)

Sri Lanka - National Intellectual Property Office of Sri Lanka

,

[MN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MN&doc-lang=EN)

Mongolia - Intellectual Property Office of Mongolia

,

[MX](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MX&doc-lang=EN)

Mexico - Mexican Institute of Industrial Property

,

[MY](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MY&doc-lang=EN)

Malaysia - Intellectual Property Corporation of Malaysia

,

[NZ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=NZ&doc-lang=EN)

New Zealand - Intellectual Property Office of New Zealand (IPONZ)

,

[PE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PE&doc-lang=EN)

Peru - National Institute for the Defense of Competition and Intellectual
Property Protection (Peru)

,

[PH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PH&doc-lang=EN)

Philippines - Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines

,

[SA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SA&doc-lang=EN)

Saudi Arabia - Saudi Authority for Intellectual Property (SAIP)

,

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

,

[TH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TH&doc-lang=EN)

Thailand - Department of Intellectual Property (DIP) (Thailand)

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

,

[VN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=VN&doc-lang=EN)

Viet Nam - Intellectual Property Office of Viet Nam (IP Viet Nam)

  

Applicants that provide an e-mail authorization in their international
application will be sent an encrypted copy of the International Search Report
(PCT/ISA/210) by e-mail. It can be opened using a password which appears at
the bottom of the Notification of Receipt of Search Copy (PCT/ISA/202)

The Office, in its capacity as International Searching Authority, accepts
documents submitted by applicants after the international filing date through
ePCT. For the official notification from the Office refer to the Official
Notices (PCT Gazette) dated 15 November 2018, page 307 _et seq._

Search fee (PCT Rule 16):

This fee is payable to the receiving Office in the currency or one of the
currencies accepted by it (refer to Annex C). This fee will be reduced by 75%
where the applicant or, if there are two or more applicants, each applicant is
a national of, and has a residence or business domicile in, one of the
following States: Cambodia, Colombia, Indonesia, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Malaysia, Mexico, Mongolia, Peru, the Philippines, Sri Lanka,
Thailand, Viet Nam

For international applications filed in English or for which a translation
into English has been furnished under PCT Rule 12.3.

1,375 AUD

804 CHF

835 EUR

1,200,000 KRW

1,473 NZD

1,206 SGD

879 USD

For international applications filed in Korean or for which a translation into
Korean has been furnished under PCT Rule 12.3.

515 AUD

302 CHF

313 EUR

450,000 KRW

552 NZD

452 SGD

330 USD

This fee is payable to the receiving Office in the currency or one of the
currencies accepted by it.

Additional search fees (PCT Rule 40.2 and 40 _bis_):

For international applications filed in English or for which a translation
into English has been furnished under PCT Rule 12.3.

1,200,000 KRW

For international applications filed in Korean or for which a translation into
Korean has been furnished under PCT Rule 12.3.

450,000 KRW

This fee is payable to the International Searching Authority and only in
particular circumstances.

Fee for copies of documents cited in the international search report (PCT Rule
44.3):

per page 100 KRW

How to obtain copies:

The Authority provides copies of each document cited in the international
search report for download, free of charge, for six months from the date of
mailing of the report

Documents can be downloaded at:
<https://www.patent.go.kr/smart/jsp/kiponet/ma/mamarkapply/infomodifypatent/PCTStatusInfo.do>

After six months from the date of mailing of the international search report
or in case of problems with downloading the documents, applicants should
contact the Authority:

e-mail: isa.kipo@korea.kr

facsimile: (82-42) 481 85 78)

or the PCT Korea Center in the United States of America:

e-mail: pctkorea@pctkorea.com

facsimile: (1-703) 388 10 84

Paper copies of cited documents can be obtained directly at the Office subject
to the fee mentioned below

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.1 _ter_):

per page 100 KRW

Protest fee (PCT Rule 40.2(e)):

11,000 KRW

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rule 13 _ter_.1(c)):

112,500 KRW

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the search fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded

Where the international application is withdrawn or is considered withdrawn,
under PCT Article 14(1), (3) or (4), before the start of the international
search:  
refund of 100%

Where the Authority benefits from an earlier search already made by the
Authority, upon request by the applicant  
refund of 75%

Languages accepted for international search:

English,

Korean

Types of physical media accepted for the furnishing of nucleotide and/or amino
acid sequence listings:

Diskette, CD-ROM, CD-R, DVD, DVD-R

Subject matter that will not be searched:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 39.1 with the
exception of any subject matter searched under the patent grant procedure in
accordance with the provisions of patent law of the Republic of Korea

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Not applicable

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Not applicable

##  Annex E - International Preliminary Examining Authority

International Preliminary Examining Authority competent for the following
Receiving Offices:

[AE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AE&doc-lang=EN)

United Arab Emirates - International Center for Patent Registration, Ministry
of Economy (United Arab Emirates)

,

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[BN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BN&doc-lang=EN)

Brunei Darussalam - Brunei Darussalam Intellectual Property Office (BruIPO)

,

[CL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CL&doc-lang=EN)

Chile - National Institute of Industrial Property (Chile)

,

[CO](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CO&doc-lang=EN)

Colombia - Superintendence of Industry and Commerce (Colombia)

,

[CV](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CV&doc-lang=EN)

Cabo Verde - Institute for Quality Management and Intellectual Property
(IGQPI) (Cabo Verde)

,

[ID](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ID&doc-lang=EN)

Indonesia - Directorate General of Intellectual Property (Indonesia)

,

[KH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KH&doc-lang=EN)

Cambodia - Department of Industrial Property (DIP), Ministry of Industry,
Science, Technology and Innovation (MISTI) (Cambodia)

,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[LA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=LA&doc-lang=EN)

Lao People's Democratic Republic - Department of Intellectual Property,
Ministry of Science and Technology (Lao People's Democratic Republic)

,

[LK](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=LK&doc-lang=EN)

Sri Lanka - National Intellectual Property Office of Sri Lanka

,

[MN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MN&doc-lang=EN)

Mongolia - Intellectual Property Office of Mongolia

,

[MX](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MX&doc-lang=EN)

Mexico - Mexican Institute of Industrial Property

,

[MY](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MY&doc-lang=EN)

Malaysia - Intellectual Property Corporation of Malaysia

,

[NZ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=NZ&doc-lang=EN)

New Zealand - Intellectual Property Office of New Zealand (IPONZ)

,

[PE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PE&doc-lang=EN)

Peru - National Institute for the Defense of Competition and Intellectual
Property Protection (Peru)

,

[PH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PH&doc-lang=EN)

Philippines - Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines

,

[SA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SA&doc-lang=EN)

Saudi Arabia - Saudi Authority for Intellectual Property (SAIP)

,

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

,

[TH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TH&doc-lang=EN)

Thailand - Department of Intellectual Property (DIP) (Thailand)

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

,

[VN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=VN&doc-lang=EN)

Viet Nam - Intellectual Property Office of Viet Nam (IP Viet Nam)

  

Applicants that provide an e-mail authorization in their international
application will be sent an encrypted copy of the International Preliminary
Report on Patentability (Chapter II of the Patent Cooperation Treaty)
(PCT/IPEA/409) by e-mail. It can be opened using a password which appears at
the bottom of the Notification of Receipt of Demand by Competent International
Preliminary Examining Authority (PCT/IPEA/402)

Preliminary examination fee (PCT Rule 58):

450,000 KRW

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority.

Additional preliminary examination fee (PCT Rule 68.3):

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority and
only in particular circumstances.

450,000 KRW

Handling fee (PCT Rule 57.1):

299,000 KRW

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority. It
is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee for copies of documents cited in the international preliminary examination
report (PCT Rule 71.2):

per page 100 KRW

How to obtain copies:

The Authority provides copies of each document cited in the international
preliminary examination report for download, free of charge, for six months
from the date of mailing of the report

Documents can be downloaded at:  
<https://www.patent.go.kr/smart/jsp/kiponet/ma/mamarkapply/infomodifypatent/PCTStatusInfo.do>

After six months from the date of mailing of the international preliminary
examination report or in case of problems with downloading the documents,
applicants should contact the Authority:

e-mail: isa.kipo@korea.kr

facsimile: (82-42) 481 85 78)

or the PCT Korea Center in the United States of America:

e-mail: pctkorea@pctkorea.com

facsimile: (1-703) 388 10 84

Paper copies of cited documents can be obtained directly at the Office subject
to the fee mentioned above

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.2):

per page 100 KRW

Protest fee (PCT Rule 68.3(e)):

11,000 KRW

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rule 13 _ter_.2):

112,500 KRW

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the preliminary examination fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded

In the cases provided for under PCT Rule 58.3:  
refund of 100%

If the international application or the demand is withdrawn before the start
of the international preliminary examination:  
refund of 100%

Languages accepted for international preliminary examination:

English,

Korean

Subject matter that will not be examined:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 67.1 with the
exception of any subject matter examined under the patent grant procedure in
accordance with the provisions of patent law of the Republic of Korea

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Not applicable

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Not applicable

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

At the time of filing (must be in the description)

— any additional indications:

None

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

None

Additional information

For the purposes of patent procedure before the Korean Intellectual Property
Office, a deposit is required not later than at the date of filing the
international application. A receipt attesting the deposit and its acceptance
issued by the depositary institution with which the microorganism was
deposited must be submitted to the Korean Intellectual Property Office within
the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1).

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(3): 31 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Korean

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

The request does not need to be translated when Form No. 57 is used for
entering the national phase (refer to Annex KR.II)

Under PCT Article 22: Request, description, claims (if amended, as originally
filed or as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article 19, at
applicant’s option), any text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Request,2 description, claims, any text matter of
drawings, abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally
filed and as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary
examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

Since 20 May 2019, where applicants wish to enter the national phase early,
i.e. before the international publication has taken place, the Korean
Intellectual Property Office in its capacity as designated/elected Office,
will retrieve a copy of the international application, and other documents
associated therewith, directly from the International Bureau

No

National fees:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Patents

Filing fee:

— when a translation of the application has been furnished

in electronic form 46,000 KRW

on paper 66,000 KRW

— per sheet in excess of 20

on paper, plus 1,000 KRW

This fee applies to the total number of sheets of the description, drawings
(if any) and abstract

Fee for request for examination

143,000 KRW

For each claim

plus 44,000 KRW

Annual fees from the 1st to the 3rd year

per year 15,000 KRW

For each claim

plus 13,000 KRW

Utility models

Filing fee:

— when a translation of the application has been furnished

in electronic form 20,000 KRW

on paper 30,000 KRW

— per sheet in excess of 20

on paper, plus 1,000 KRW

This fee applies to the total number of sheets of the description, drawings
(if any) and abstract

Fee for request for examination

71,000 KRW

For each claim

plus 19,000 KRW

Annual fees from the 1st to the 3rd year

per year 12,000 KRW

For each claim

plus 4,000 KRW

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

Filing fee, fee for request for examination, annual fees from the 1st to the
3rd year and fee for request for scope confirmation trial are reduced by 70%
where the applicant is a natural person and is also the inventor. However, if
the number of applications per year by the applicant exceeds 20, the
application fee will be reduced by 30% only

The fee for request for examination is reduced by 70% where the international
search report and/or the international preliminary examination report has been
established by the Korean Intellectual Property Office

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application 3 4

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in the Republic of
Korea 5

Furnishing, where applicable, of a nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence
listing in electronic form

Who can act as agent?

Any registered patent attorney or legal representative

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

No

##  The procedure in the national Phase

KR.01 FORMS FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

PL Sec. 203  
The Office has available a transmittal form for entering the national phase
(Form No. 57, refer to Annex KR.II) and strongly recommends the use of this
Form. When this Form is used, the Request does not need to be translated under
PCT Rule 49.1(a)(i). If amendments have been made during the international
phase under PCT Article 19, or during the international preliminary
examination under PCT Article 34, Form No. 13 (refer to Annex KR.VI) should
preferably be used for the furnishing of a translation of such amendments into
Korean. Forms Nos. 57 and 13 are also available on KIPO’s web site at:
<http://www.kipo.go.kr>.

KR.02 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

PL Sec. 201(3)  
A revised translation of the international application can be furnished before
the expiration of the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)
unless a request for examination (refer to paragraph KR.06) has already been
filed. Errors in the translation may also be corrected when amendments to the
application are permitted (refer to paragraph KR.10).

KR.03 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

PL Sec. 79(1),  PL Sec. 82(1)  
The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex KR.I.

KR.04 POWER OF ATTORNEY

PL Sec. 5(1)  
An agent must be appointed by filing a power of attorney. Where the power of
attorney is in a language other than Korean, a Korean translation is required.
A model is given in Annex KR.IV (English translation).

KR.05 PRIORITY DOCUMENT

ER Sec. 113  
The Commissioner of the Korean Intellectual Property Office or the President
of the Intellectual Property Tribunal may, if necessary for the examination or
trial, invite the applicant to submit the Korean translation of the priority
document within a designated period. In case of identity between the text of
the priority document and the international application, a statement to that
effect may be furnished instead of a translation.

KR.06 REQUEST FOR EXAMINATION

PL Sec. 60,  PL Sec. 210  
A patent will be granted only after examination as to patentability which may
be requested by the applicant or by a third party. The request for examination
must be made in writing and in Korean, on Form No. 22 which is given in Annex
KR.III.

KR.07 TIME LIMIT FOR REQUESTING EXAMINATION

PL Sec. 59(2)  
Examination must be requested within three years from the international filing
date (see, however, for utility models, paragraph KR.13). Such request can
only be made once all requirements for entry into the national phase (refer to
the Summary) have been complied with. The request for examination is
considered by the Office as a request for early start of the national phase if
it is made before the expiration of the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1) (refer to paragraph 3.004 of the National Phase).

KR.08 FEE FOR REQUESTING EXAMINATION

PL Sec. 82  
The request for examination is only effective if the fee for requesting
examination has been paid. The amount of the fee is indicated in Annex KR.I.

KR.09 ANNUAL FEES

PL Sec. 79(1)  
After examination, prior to the grant of a patent, annual fees must be paid
for the first to the third year. These fees must be paid all at one and the
same time within three months after receipt of the decision to grant a patent.
The annual fees for the fourth and subsequent years must be paid before the
anniversary of the date of the first payment. Payment can still be made,
together with a 18% surcharge for late payment, before the expiration of six
months from the anniversary of the date of the first payment. The amounts of
the annual fees are indicated in Annex KR.I. Payment must be effected by
filing Form No. 25. This form may be obtained from the Office.

KR.10 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  PL Sec. 47(1),  PL Sec. 208  
The applicant may amend the specification or drawings attached to the
application before the examiner issues a certified copy of a decision to grant
a patent. However, in cases that fall under any of the following
subparagraphs, the applicant may amend the application within the following
time limit:

(i) where the applicant receives a notice of the grounds for rejection
(excluding a notice of grounds for rejection with regard to a ground for
rejection which has arisen according to the amendment following the notice of
grounds for rejection) for the first time or receives a notice of the grounds
for rejection that does not apply under paragraph (ii): the applicable time
limit is the period for submission of arguments against a notice of the
grounds for rejection thereof;

(ii) where the applicant receives a notice of the grounds for rejection (and
where the examiner issues a notice of revocation of decision to grant patent
for _ex officio_ reexamination, excluding a notice of grounds for rejection
which has been issued before the examiner issues that notice) which has arisen
as a result of an amendment following a notice of the grounds for rejection:
the applicable time limit is the period for submission of arguments against a
notice of the grounds for rejection thereof; or

(iii) where an applicant requests a reexamination in accordance with Article
67 _bis_ against a decision of rejection of a patent: at the time of filing of
the request.

Notwithstanding the first paragraph, no amendment to an international patent
application (except an amendment under PCT Articles 19(1) and 34(2)(b)) may be
made until the fees have been paid, a translation of the application (except
in the case of an international patent application made in the Korean
language) has been submitted, and the relevant date (either 31 months from the
priority date or after the filing date of a request for examination, whichever
is earlier), has passed.

KR.11 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51,  PL Sec. 214,  UML Sec. 40  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. The request for review to the Office should be filed with Form
No. 58, which is given in Annex KR.V, within two months from the date of the
notification to the applicant of the refusal, declaration, or finding referred
to in PCT Article 25(1).

KR.12 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2)  
The Office does not excuse the failure to comply with any time limits during
the national phase.

KR.13 UTILITY MODEL

UML Sec. 17  
The requirements for the national phase are basically the same as for patents,
except that the fees for utility models must be paid (refer to Annex KR.I,
page 2). Examination must be requested within three years from the
international filing date.

KR.14

PCT Art. 7(2)(ii),  UML Sec. 36  
Where, in the case referred to in paragraph KR.13, the international
application does not contain drawings, the applicant must furnish the
drawing(s) within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1).
Where the applicant does not furnish the drawing(s) within that time limit,
the Office will invite him to furnish the drawing(s) within a time limit fixed
in the invitation.

KR.15 CONVERSION APPLICATION

UML Sec. 10,  UML Sec. 37  
An international application for a patent may be converted into an application
for a utility model after the applicant has complied with the requirements for
entry into the national phase for a patent application as indicated in the
Summary. The conversion is subject to the payment of a fee for conversion
indicated in Annex KR.I and may be requested at any time within 30 days from
the date of (first) receipt of a certified copy of the decision of refusal.

KR.16

PL Sec. 53,  PL Sec. 209  
An international application for a utility model may be converted into an
application for a patent after the applicant has complied with the
requirements for entry into the national phase for a utility model application
as indicated in the Summary. The conversion is subject to the payment of a fee
for conversion indicated in Annex KR.I and may be requested at any time within
30 days from the date of receipt of a certified copy of the decision of
refusal.

##  Annexes

Annex KR.I - Fees

Patents

National fee:

— when a translation of the application has been furnished

in electronic form 46,000 KRW

on paper 66,000 KRW

— per sheet in excess of 20

on paper, plus 1,000 KRW

This fee applies to the total number of sheets of the description, drawings
(if any) and abstract

Fee for claiming priority:

— when a request for claiming priority is made

— for each priority claim

in electronic form 18,000 KRW

on paper 20,000 KRW

  

Fee for request for examination

143,000 KRW

— for each claim

plus 44,000 KRW

Fee for conversion of a patent application into a utility model application

Same as national fee for utility models

Annual fees:

These fees may all be paid at the same time or in installments

— for the 1st to the 3rd year (must all be paid at one and the same time)

per year 15,000 KRW

— for each claim

plus 13,000 KRW

— for the 4th to the 6th year, per year

40,000 KRW

— for each claim

plus 22,000 KRW

— for the 7th to the 9th year, per year

100,000 KRW

— for each claim

plus 38,000 KRW

— for the 10th to the 12th year, per year

240,000 KRW

— for each claim

plus 55,000 KRW

— for the 13th to the 25th year, per year

360,000 KRW

— for each claim

plus 55,000 KRW

Utility Models

National fee:

— when a translation of the application has been furnished

in electronic form 20,000 KRW

on paper 30,000 KRW

— per sheet in excess of 20

on paper, plus 1,000 KRW

This fee applies to the total number of sheets of the description, drawings
(if any) and abstract

Fee for claiming priority:

— when a request for claiming priority is made

— for each claim

in electronic form 18,000 KRW

on paper 20,000 KRW

  

Fee for request for examination

71,000 KRW

— for each claim

plus 19,000 KRW

Fee for conversion of a utility model application into a patent application

Same as national fee for patents

Annual fees:

These fees may all be paid at the same time or in installments

— for the 1st to the 3rd year (must all be paid at one and the same time), per
year

12,000 KRW

— for each claim

plus 4,000 KRW

— for the 4th to the 6th year, per year

25,000 KRW

— for each claim

plus 9,000 KRW

— for the 7th to the 9th year, per year

60,000 KRW

— for each claim

plus 14,000 KRW

— for the 10th to the 12th year, per year

160,000 KRW

— for each claim

plus 20,000 KRW

— for the 13th to the 15th year, per year

240,000 KRW

— for each claim

plus 20,000 KRW

How can payment of fees be effected?

All payments must be made via the Office’s payment system and must indicate
the receipt number issued by the Office to the applicant

For further details, refer to
[https://www.kipo.go.kr/en/HtmlApp?c=92004&](https://www.kipo.go.kr/en/HtmlApp?c=92004&);catmenu=ek03_04_01

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex KR.II - Transmittal form (Form No.
57)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_kr.pdf)

[Annex KR.III - Request for examination of the application (Form No.
22)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_kr.pdf)

[Annex KR.IV - Power of
attorney](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_IV_kr.pdf)

[Annex KR.V - Request for review (Form No.
58)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_V_kr.pdf)

[Annex KR.VI - Submission of a translation of amendments or statement (Form
No. 13)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_VI_kr.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a The Office is competent only for international applications filed in
Japanese or for which a translation into Japanese has been furnished under PCT
Rule 12.3.  
2 ^ a b The Office is competent only if the international search is or has
been carried out by that Office.  
3 ^ a If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit which shall not be less than two months from
the date of the invitation.  
4 ^ a This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  
5 ^ a Must be appointed within two months from the expiration of the time
limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1).  

Change(s) as of 1 January 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex D - International Searching Authority

Search fee (PCT Rule 16):

This fee is payable to the receiving Office in the currency or one of the
currencies accepted by it (refer to Annex C). This fee will be reduced by 75%
where the applicant or, if there are two or more applicants, each applicant is
a national of, and has a residence or business domicile in, one of the
following States: Cambodia, Colombia, Indonesia, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Malaysia, Mexico, Mongolia, Peru, the Philippines, Sri Lanka,
Thailand, Viet Nam

For international applications filed in English or for which a translation
into English has been furnished under PCT Rule 12.3.

1,375 AUD

804 CHF

835 EUR

1,200,000 KRW

1,473 NZD

1,206 SGD

879 USD

For international applications filed in Korean or for which a translation into
Korean has been furnished under PCT Rule 12.3.

515 AUD

302 CHF

313 EUR

450,000 KRW

552 NZD

452 SGD

330 USD

This fee is payable to the receiving Office in the currency or one of the
currencies accepted by it.

  

  
Annex E - International Preliminary Examining Authority

Handling fee (PCT Rule 57.1):

299,000 KRW

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority. It
is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Close

Current version applicable from 1 Jan 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

