####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
KW - Useful informationKW - International PhaseKW - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationKW - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeKW - National PhaseKW - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseKW - The procedure in the national PhaseKW - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide KW - Kuwait  
Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Trademarks and Patent Department (Kuwait)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **15 September 2023**

(published on 15 September 2023)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
From now on, you will find here a summary of changes to each new version of
the PCT Applicant's Guide, as well as the detailed list of these changes.
Moreover, you can now easily access the historical versions of the Guide.  
  
  

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for KW - Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Trademarks and Patent Department
\(Kuwait\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Trademarks and Patent Department
(Kuwait)

List of currencies used in this document:

KWD (Kuwaiti Dinar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=KW).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Friday and Saturday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Kuwait

Two-letter code:

[KW](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KW&doc-lang=EN)

Kuwait - Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Trademarks and Patent Department
(Kuwait)

Name of Office:

Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Trademarks and Patent Department (Kuwait)

Location:

KIPCO Tower  
Kuwait City  
Kuwait

Mailing address:

P.O. Box 2944  
Safat 13030  
Kuwait

Telephone:

(965) 66 62 36 63

E-mail:

mansouralnzhan@gmail.com  
patent.department@moci.gov.kw  
eng_rashid7755@hotmail.com

Website:

<http://www.moci.gov.kw>

Facsimile:

(965) 22 94 33 53

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by e-mail or facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes,

within 90 days from the date of the invitation

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

Yes

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

provided that the delivery service is:  
DHL

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

Refer to corresponding Annex C

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[KW](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KW&doc-lang=EN)

Kuwait - Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Trademarks and Patent Department
(Kuwait)

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Patents

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished later. If the indications concerning
the inventor are missing at the expiration of the time limit under PCT Article
22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit of 90 days from the date of the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

No

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

The Office does not act as receiving Office

This Office has delegated its RO functions to RO/IB. Refer to [Annex
C(IB)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-
lang=EN&doc-type=ANNEX) for more information.

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Arabic

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

Yes

National fees:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Filing fee

filing by an individual 40 KWD

filing by a company 80 KWD

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

The filing fee is reduced by 50% where the applicant is a student

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

Name and address of the inventor if not indicated in the “Request” part of the
international application 1 2

Declaration as to the applicant’s entitlement to apply for and be granted a
patent 1 2

Declaration as to the applicant’s entitlement to claim priority of the earlier
application 1 2

Document evidencing a change of name of the applicant if the change occurred
after the international filing date and has not been reflected in a
notification from the International Bureau (Form PCT/IB/306) 1

Representation by an agent if the applicant is not resident in Kuwait 1

Instrument appointing the agent (authorization or power of attorney) 1

Who can act as agent?

Any patent attorney or patent agent registered to practice before the Office,
or any person legally qualified to practice before the Office

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies both the “unintentional” and the “due care” criteria
to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

Information not yet available

##  Annexes

Annex KW.I - Fees

Information not yet available

Forms

Please refer to the Office.

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a b c d e f If not already complied with within the time limit applicable
under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply
with the requirement within a time limit of 90 days from the date of receipt
of the invitation.  
2 ^ a b c This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration
has been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  

Change(s) as of 15 September 2023 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference.
Mouse hover the text to consult previous value)

Close

Current version applicable from 15 Sep 2023 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

