####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
LR - Useful informationLR - International PhaseLR - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationLR - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeLR - National PhaseLR - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseLR - The procedure in the national PhaseLR - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide LR - Liberia  
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Bureau of Archives, Patents, Trade Marks and
Copyright (Liberia)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **1 March 2024**

(published on 1 February 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
RO: RO fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 1 Jan 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for LR - Liberia Intellectual Property Office \(LIPO\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Liberia Intellectual Property Office (LIPO)

LPL: Liberia Intellectual Property Act, 2016

LPR: Administrative Regulation on Patent, 5 September 2019

List of currencies used in this document:

USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=LR).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Liberia

Two-letter code:

[LR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=LR&doc-lang=EN)

Liberia - Liberia Intellectual Property Office (LIPO)

Name of Office:

Liberia Intellectual Property Office (LIPO)

Location:

Old Labor Ministry Building  
U.N. Drive  
Monrovia  
Liberia

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(231) 775 53 35 95

E-mail:

liberiaindustrialproperty@gmail.com

Website:

None

Facsimile:

(231) 770 32 90 24

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes, within 14 days from the date of transmission, if the transmitted document
is an international application or a replacement sheet containing corrections
or amendments of an international application

No, only upon invitation in the case of other documents

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

provided that the delivery service is:  
DHL  
EMS

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[AP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AP&doc-lang=EN)

African Regional Intellectual Property Organization - African Regional
Intellectual Property Organization (ARIPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[LR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=LR&doc-lang=EN)

Liberia - Liberia Intellectual Property Office (LIPO)

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: LR

ARIPO protection: AP

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents

Utility models

ARIPO:

Patents

Utility models (a utility model may be sought instead of or in addition to an
ARIPO patent)

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If the data concerning the inventor are missing at the
expiry of the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)(a), the
Office will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time
limit fixed in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

No

For an ARIPO patent

Refer to [Annex B(AP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=AP&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Liberia

Language in which international applications may be filed:

English

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

3

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Information not yet available

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies both the “unintentional” and the “due care” criteria
to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[CN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CN&doc-lang=EN)

China - China National Intellectual Property Administration (CNIPA)

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[SE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SE&doc-lang=EN)

Sweden - Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[CN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CN&doc-lang=EN)

China - China National Intellectual Property Administration (CNIPA)

1,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

2,

[SE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SE&doc-lang=EN)

Sweden - Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

50 USD

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(AT)  
Annex D(AU)  
Annex D(CN)  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(SE)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

per page of the certified copy 5 USD

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

Yes

Who can act as agent?

Any attorney certified by the Liberia Intellectual Property Office (LIPO) and
registered by the Legal Bar Association or any IP agent certified by LIPO

Waiver of power of attorney:

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Refer to the Office

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Refer to the Office

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

English

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, as amended only,
together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any text matter of
drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, only as amended by the
annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Filing fee

400 USD

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in Liberia

Oath or declaration of the inventor 3

Who can act as agent?

Any attorney certified by the Liberia Intellectual Property Office (LIPO) and
registered by the Legal Bar Association or any IP agent certified by LIPO

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies both the “unintentional” and the “due care” criteria
to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

LR.01 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

LR.02 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex LR.I.

LR.03 REPRESENTATION

LPR Sec. 7.2  
An agent must be appointed by filing a power of attorney if the applicant is
not resident in Liberia. A model is given in Annex LR.II. If the power of
attorney is not filed at the time of entry into the national phase, it may be
filed within two months from the expiration of the time limit applicable under
Article 22 or 39(1).

LR.04 EXAMINATION

LPR Sec. 11.1  
The Office will examine or provide for the examination of patent applications
as to substance. A request for examination must be filed which is subject to
the payment of a fee. The request shall be deemed to have been filed when the
examination fee has been paid. Failure to make the request within the
prescribed time limit will cause the application to lapse.

LR.05 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATIONS; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  LPL Sec. 13.6(e)  
Amendments and corrections to the description, claims and drawings may be made
at any time during the patent procedure before the grant of the patent
provided that the scope of the subject matter of the application is not
broadened thereby.

LR.06 ANNUAL FEES

LPL Sec. 13.12(b),  LPR Sec. 18  
In order to maintain the patent or the patent application, annual fees must be
paid in advance for each year , starting one year after the international
filing date. The annual maintenance fee shall become due on the eve of each
anniversary of the international filing date. A period of grace of six months
shall be allowed for the late payment of the annual fee on payment of the
prescribed surcharge fee which is indicated in Annex LR.I. If an annual fee is
not paid, the patent application shall be deemed to have been withdrawn or the
patent shall lapse.

LR.07 REINSTATEMENT OF RIGHTS

PCT Rule 49.6,  LPL Sec. 13.24,  LPR Sec. 21.1,  LPR Sec. 21.2,  LPR Sec. 21.3  
Reinstatement of rights may be requested where the applicant, in spite of due
care required by the circumstances having been taken, failed to perform the
acts referred to in Article 22(1) or 39(1)(a) within the applicable time
limit. Any request for reinstatement of rights, shall be filed in writing
within two months of the removal of the cause of non-compliance with the
period, but at the latest within six months of expiry of the unobserved time
limit. The request for reinstatement of rights shall not be deemed to have
been filed until the prescribed fee has been paid. The request shall state the
grounds on which it is based and shall set out the facts on which it relies.
The omitted act shall be completed within the relevant period for filing the
request.

LR.08 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. If, upon review under PCT Article 25, the Office denies an
error or omission on the part of the receiving Office or the International
Bureau, an appeal against this decision may be lodged with the Office.

LR.09 RESTORATION OF THE RIGHT OF PRIORITY

LPL Sec. 13.25  
Where the international application claims the priority of an earlier
application and has an international filing date which is later than the date
on which the priority period expired but within the period of two months from
that date, the Office shall, upon request of the applicant and payment of the
prescribed fee, restore the right of priority with respect to that
international application if the Office finds that the failure to file the
international application within the priority period was unintentional or
occurred in spite of due care required by the circumstances having been taken.
The Office shall not refuse, totally or in part, a request for restoration of
the right of priority without giving the applicant the opportunity to make
observations on the intended refusal within a time limit, which shall not be
less than three months counted from the date of notification.

LR.10 APPEALS

LPR Sec.12.2  
The applicant may lodge an appeal against a decision of the Registrar General
to the Director General within two months after the date of notification of
the decision to him by the Office. No fee is required.

LR.11 UTILITY MODEL

LPL Sec. 13.28  
Subject to what is said in paragraph LR.12, if the applicant wishes to obtain
a utility model instead of a patent in Liberia on the basis of an
international application, he shall so indicate to the office when performing
the acts referred to in PCT Article 22 or 39. A utility model certificate
shall expire at the end of the 10th year after the date of the grant of the
utility model, and shall not be renewable.

LR.12 CONVERSION

LPL Sec. 13.29  
An international application for a patent may be converted into a utility
model application, and _vice versa_ , at any time before the grant or refusal
of a patent or a utility model certificate. Conversion is subject to the
payment of a fee which is indicated in Annex LR.I. An application may not be
converted more than once.

##  Annexes

Annex LR.I - Fees

Patents

Fee for national processing

400 USD

Publication fee

150 USD

Surcharge for late payment of annual maintenance

30 USD

Grant fee for patent

10 USD

Conversion of patent to utility model

50 USD

Conversion of utility model to patent

50 USD

Annual fees:

— for the 1st year

40 USD

— for the 2nd year

60 USD

— for the 3rd year

80 USD

— for the 4th year

100 USD

— for the 5th year

120 USD

— for the 6th year

140 USD

— for the 7th year

160 USD

— for the 8th year

180 USD

— for the 9th year

200 USD

— for the 10th year

180 USD

— for the 11th year

160 USD

— for the 12th year

140 USD

— for the 13th year

120 USD

— for the 14th year

100 USD

— for the 15th year

80 USD

— for the 16th year

60 USD

— for the 17th year

40 USD

— for the 18th year

60 USD

— for the 19th year

80 USD

— for the 20th year

100 USD

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of fees must be effected in US dollar and should be made by bank
draft payable to the Patent and Trade Mark account at the Central Bank of
Liberia in Monrovia. All payments must give the application number (national
if already known; international if the national number is not yet known).

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex LR.II - Power of
attorney](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_lr.pdf)

[Annex LR.III - Oath by
inventor](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_lr.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office.  
2 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office, the Austrian Patent Office or the Swedish
Intellectual Property Office (PRV).  
3 ^ a This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  

Change(s) as of 1 March 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

  

Close

Current version applicable from 1 Mar 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

