####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  
LT - Useful informationLT - International PhaseLT - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationLT - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeLT - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialLT - National Phase

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide LT - Lithuania  
State Patent Bureau of the Republic of Lithuania

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **25 April 2024**

(published on 25 April 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
GENERAL INFORMATION: Payment methods  
RO: Incorporation by reference, Electronic filing  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Jan 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for LT - State Patent Bureau of the Republic of Lithuania)).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: State Patent Bureau of the Republic of Lithuania

List of currencies used in this document:

EUR (Euro)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=LT).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Rule 49 _ter_.1(g)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Lithuania

Two-letter code:

[LT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=LT&doc-lang=EN)

Lithuania - State Patent Bureau of the Republic of Lithuania

Name of Office:

State Patent Bureau of the Republic of Lithuania

Location:

Kalvarijų g. 3  
LT-09310 Vilnius  
Lithuania

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(370-5) 278 02 50

E-mail:

info@vpb.gov.lt

Website:

<http://vpb.lrv.lt>

Facsimile:

(370-5) 275 07 23

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

Yes, the Office is prepared to allow applicants to make national applications
filed in electronic form available to the WIPO DAS

For further details, refer to:  
<https://www.wipo.int/das/en/participating_offices/details.jsp?id=12645>

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[LT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=LT&doc-lang=EN)

Lithuania - State Patent Bureau of the Republic of Lithuania

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Types of protection available via the PCT:

European patents

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

Designation made for the purposes of a European patent:

Provisional protection shall be effective in Lithuania as from the date on
which the State Patent Bureau of the Republic of Lithuania publishes the
translation of the claims into Lithuanian (refer to Article 78 of the Patent
Law of the Republic of Lithuania).

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

No

For a European patent

Refer to [Annex B(EP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=ep&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Lithuania

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3).

English,

Lithuanian,

Russian

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Same language as the international application (English or Lithuanian )

Language in which the request may be filed:

English,

Russian

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

3

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via EPO Online Filing or ePCT-
Filing.  
Offline filings may be furnished on CD-R or DVD-R

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C
of the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

For the relevant notifications by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 24 January 2013, pages 8 _et seq._ , 13 September 2018,
page 290, 11 November 2021, pages 190 _et seq._ and 4 August 2022, page 207.

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

No, color photographs and color drawings are not accepted. The translation of
the international application and any copy of drawings must comply with the
physical requirements prescribed by the designated Office (PCT Rule 49.5(j)).
Drawings shall be executed in durable, black, sufficiently dense and dark,
uniformly thick and well-defined, lines and strokes without colorings.

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[XV](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=XV&doc-lang=EN)

Visegrad Patent Institute - Visegrad Patent Institute (VPI)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

1,

[XV](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=XV&doc-lang=EN)

Visegrad Patent Institute - Visegrad Patent Institute (VPI)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

92 EUR

International filing fee:

1,381 EUR

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

16 EUR

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

208 EUR

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

311 EUR

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(XV)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

23 EUR

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

115 EUR

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in the EEA (European Economic Area)  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident of the EEA

Who can act as agent?

Any patent attorney registered to practice before the Office

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent or a common
representative who was not indicated in the request form at the time of filing

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent or a common
representative who was not indicated in the request form at the time of filing

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

None

— any additional indications:

At the time of filing (as part of the application)

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, relevant information on the
characteristics of the microorganism

Additional information

Deposits may also be made for the purposes of patent procedure before the
State Patent Bureau of the Republic of Lithuania with any depositary
institution.

##  National Phase

The Office closed the national route

Refer to [National Chapter(EP)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-
doc.xhtml?doc-code=ep&doc-lang=en)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office or by the Visegrad Patent Institute.  

Change(s) as of 25 April 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental Organization

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

As RO:  
Bank transfer.  
Currency: EUR  
Bank details:  
Correspondent Bank: Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Lithuania.  
Beneficiary's Bank: IBAN: LT714040063610000625, SWIFT: MFRLLT22.  
Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Lithuania, Lukiskiu str. 2, 01512
Vilnius, Lithuania  
Account holder: The State Patent Bureau of the Republic of Lithuania

  

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

  

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

  

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

No, color photographs and color drawings are not accepted. The translation of
the international application and any copy of drawings must comply with the
physical requirements prescribed by the designated Office (PCT Rule 49.5(j)).
Drawings shall be executed in durable, black, sufficiently dense and dark,
uniformly thick and well-defined, lines and strokes without colorings.

  

Close

Current version applicable from 25 Apr 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

