####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
LU - Useful informationLU - International PhaseLU - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationLU - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeLU - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialLU - National PhaseLU - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseLU - The procedure in the national PhaseLU - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide LU - Luxembourg  
Intellectual Property Office (Luxembourg)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **1 January 2024**

(published on 1 December 2023)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
RO: RO fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for LU - Intellectual Property Office \(Luxembourg\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Intellectual Property Office (Luxembourg)

L77: Law of May 27, 1977, implementing the PCT

LPL: Law of July 20, 1992, amending the Patent System

R78: Grand-Ducal Regulations of May 25, 1978

RP97: Grand-Ducal Regulations of November 17, 1997, concerning Procedures and
Administrative Formalities in Patent Matters

RT97: Grand-Ducal Regulations of November 17, 1997, Establishing Fees and
Remuneration in Patent Matters

List of currencies used in this document:

EUR (Euro)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=LU).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Article 22(1) (Decision of the Assembly of the PCT Union of October 3, 2001
(PCT/A/30/7, Annex IV))  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Luxembourg

Two-letter code:

[LU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=LU&doc-lang=EN)

Luxembourg - Intellectual Property Office (Luxembourg)

Name of Office:

Intellectual Property Office (Luxembourg)

Location:

Ministère de l’économie 19-21  
Boulevard Royal  
Luxembourg-Ville  
Luxembourg

Mailing address:

L-2914 Luxembourg

Telephone:

(352) 247 84113

E-mail:

dpi@eco.etat.lu

Website:

<http://www.eco.public.lu>  
<http://patent.public.lu>

Facsimile:

(352) 247 94113

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes,

within 14 days from the date of the transmission

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

A resident of Luxembourg must file an international application for an
invention which may be of interest for national defense with the Intellectual
Property Office (Luxembourg)

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[LU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=LU&doc-lang=EN)

Luxembourg - Intellectual Property Office (Luxembourg)

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: LU

European patent: EP

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents

European:

Patents

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a national patent:

Reasonable damages may be claimed as from the date of publication in French or
German, or from the date of communication of a translation into French or
German either to a defendant or to the Intellectual Property Office
(Luxembourg) (Law of 27 May 1977).

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a European patent:

(1) International application published in one of the EPO official languages:
compensation reasonable in the circumstances, on condition that any national
requirements relating to the translation of the claims in the application have
been met.

(2) International application published in a language which is not an EPO
official language: the protection referred to in (1) does not become effective
until the EPO publishes the international application supplied to it in one of
its official languages.

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

For national protection

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished later. If not already com-plied with
within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office
will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit
fixed in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

For a European patent

Refer to [Annex B(EP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=ep&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Luxembourg

Language in which international applications may be filed:

French,

German

Language in which the request may be filed:

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

3

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Information not yet available

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, please refer to the Office for the applicable criteria and/or any fee
payable for such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

19 EUR

International filing fee:

1,381 EUR

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

16 EUR

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EP)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

7 EUR

— for every set of 3 pages or part thereof:

plus 1 EUR

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No

Who can act as agent?

Any patent agent registered to practice in Luxembourg or any member of the
Luxembourg Bar, as well as any patent agent registered in a member State of
the European Economic Area

Waiver of power of attorney:

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Refer to the Office

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Refer to the Office

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

None

— any additional indications:

None

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

None

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 20 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within one month after the expiration of the time
limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)

However, a translation of the claims into German or French is required where
the application is submitted in English

English,

French,

German

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within one month after the expiration of the time
limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings (if
any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and as amended
by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report), abstract

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

Must be furnished or paid within one month after the expiration of the time
limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)

Filing fee

40 EUR

3rd annual fee

33 EUR

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

No filing fee is payable if the international application was filed with the
Intellectual Property Office (Luxembourg) as receiving Office.

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application 1

Deed of assignment of the priority rights where the applicants are not
identical 1

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in the European
Economic Area

Who can act as agent?

Any patent agent registered to practice in Luxembourg or any member of the
Luxembourg Bar, as well as any patent agent registered in a member State of
the European Economic Area

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, please refer to the Office for the applicable criteria and/or any fee
payable for such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

LU.01 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

LU.02 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex LU.I.

LU.03 NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE INVENTOR

LPL Art. 30(6),  RP Art. 13  
Unless they have been indicated in the “Request” part of the international
application, the name and address of the inventor must be furnished. For
details, refer to the model for such a designation (not an official form) in
Annex LU.II. Legalization is not required. For time limits, refer to the
Summary.

LU.04 ASSIGNMENT OF PRIORITY RIGHTS

L77 Art. 8,  RP Art. 14(4)  
Where the priority of an earlier application is claimed and the applicant(s)
in that application is (are) not identical with the applicant(s) of the
international application, an assignment of the priority rights must be
furnished. For details, refer to the model for such assignment (not an
official form) in Annex LU.III. Legalization is not required. For time limits,
refer to the Summary.

LU.05 ANNUAL FEES

L77 Art. 6(2),  LPL Art. 67,  LPL Art. 68,  RT Art. 13  
Annual fees are payable for the third and each subsequent year following the
international filing date. Payment must be made before the expiration of the
month containing the anniversary of the international filing date. It is to be
noted that an annual fee which is due within the 30-month time limit
applicable under PCT Article 39(1)(a) can be paid without surcharge up to the
expiration of the 30-month time limit. Payment of annual fees can still be
made within six months after the due date, together with the surcharge for
late payment. For the amounts, refer to Annex LU.I.

LU.06 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  R78 Art. 10  
The applicant may amend the title of the invention, description, claims and
drawings within one month from the expiration of the time limit applicable
under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), provided that the subject matter of the
application is not broadened thereby. Amendments must be made by means of
replacement sheets or by means of entirely new documents filed in three copies
and are subject to the payment, within the same time limits, of an
administrative fee (refer to Annex LU.I).

LU.07 REVIEW UNDER PCT ARTICLE 25

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51,  L77 Art. 9  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. If, upon review under PCT Article 25, the Office denies an
error or omission on the part of the receiving Office or the International
Bureau, an appeal against this decision may be lodged within three months from
the decision. The Council of State will then decide on the appeal.

LU.08

LPL Art. 40  
Reestablishment of rights (_restitutio in integrum_) may be requested where
the applicant, in spite of due care required by the circumstances having been
taken, has failed to observe a time limit. An application for reestablishment
must state the grounds on which it is based and must be filed within one year
from the expiration of the time limit which has not been observed. If the
application for reestablishment is accepted, the applicant will have to pay a
reestablishment (_restitutio in integrum_) fee and a fee for publication of
the decision of _restitutio in integrum_ in the Official Journal.

LU.09 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

LPL Art. 70  
Where annual fees have not been paid within the prescribed time limits (refer
to paragraph LU.05) for reasons beyond applicant’s control, restoration may be
requested within 20 months from the loss of rights. The request must set out
the reasons beyond the applicant’s control that have caused the delay in
payment. If a favorable decision is taken on the request for restoration, the
applicant will be permitted to pay the annual fees and surcharges which have
become due together with the restoration fee and the fee for publication of
the decision of restoration in the Official Journal (refer to Annex LU.I).

##  Annexes

Annex LU.I - Fees

Filing fee

40 EUR

Annual fees:

— for the 3rd year

33 EUR

— for the 4th year

41 EUR

— for the 5th year

52 EUR

— for the 6th year

66 EUR

— for the 7th year

82 EUR

— for the 8th year

99 EUR

— for the 9th year

115 EUR

— for the 10th year

131 EUR

— for the 11th year

148 EUR

— for the 12th year

165 EUR

— for the 13th year

180 EUR

— for the 14th year

198 EUR

— for the 15th year

213 EUR

— for the 16th year

230 EUR

— for the 17th year

246 EUR

— for the 18th year

262 EUR

— for the 19th year

281 EUR

— for the 20th year

300 EUR

Surcharge for late payment of the annual fee

20 EUR

Fee for amendment of the title of the invention, the description, the claims,
and the drawings before a designated Office (PCT Article 28 or 41)

7 EUR

Restoration fee/reestablishment (_restitutio in integrum_) fee

25 EUR

How can payment of fees be effected?

All fees relating to patents in Luxembourg are payable by wire transfer to the
post office account (CCPL) of the beneficiary:

Ministère de l’Economie  
Office de la propriété intellectuelle  
L-2914 Luxembourg

IBAN  
LU91 1111 7125 0540 0000

BIC  
CCPLLULL

All payments should give the filing number (national patent), respectively
publication number (European and international patents), the name of the
patent holder, the filing date of the patent and the nature of the fee (upon
payment of an annual fee for maintenance in force, it is imperative to specify
the patent year). Where payment relates to an invoice, it is sufficient to
state the number, date and originator of the invoice

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex LU.II - Designation of the
inventor](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_lu.pdf)

[Annex LU.III - Assignment of priority
rights](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_lu.pdf)

[Annex LU.IV - Power of
attorney](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_IV_lu.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a b This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  

Change(s) as of 1 January 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

International filing fee:

1,381 EUR

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Close

Current version applicable from 1 Jan 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

