####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
LY - Useful informationLY - International PhaseLY - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationLY - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeLY - National PhaseLY - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseLY - The procedure in the national PhaseLY - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide LY - Libya  
Libyan Industrial Property Office

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **15 September 2023**

(published on 15 September 2023)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
From now on, you will find here a summary of changes to each new version of
the PCT Applicant's Guide, as well as the detailed list of these changes.
Moreover, you can now easily access the historical versions of the Guide.  
  
RO: Electronic filing, RO fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for LY - Libyan Industrial Property Office)).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Libyan Industrial Property Office

List of currencies used in this document:

CHF (Swiss franc)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=LY).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Friday and Saturday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Libya

Two-letter code:

[LY](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=LY&doc-lang=EN)

Libya - Libyan Industrial Property Office

Name of Office:

Libyan Industrial Property Office

Location:

Industrial Research Center  
Tajoura  
P.O. Box 3633  
Tripoli  
Libya

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(218-21) 369 15 12  
(218-21) 369 15 18

E-mail:

lipo@irc.org.ly

Website:

<http://www.irc.org.ly>

Facsimile:

(218-21) 369 00 28

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[LY](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=LY&doc-lang=EN)

Libya - Libyan Industrial Property Office

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[LY](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=LY&doc-lang=EN)

Libya - Libyan Industrial Property Office

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Patents

Patents of addition

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished later. If not already complied with
within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office
will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit
of two months from the date of receipt of the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

No

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Libya

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3).

Arabic,

English

Language in which the request may be filed:

Arabic,

English

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

3

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (see “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 19 May 2023, pages 118 _et seq._

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, please refer to the Office for the applicable criteria and/or any fee
payable for such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

Please refer to the Office

International filing fee:

1,330 CHF

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

15 CHF

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

200 CHF

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

300 CHF

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(AT)  
Annex D(EP)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

None

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Libya  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any patent attorney or patent agent registered before the Office

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Not applicable

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Not applicable

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Information not yet available

##  The procedure in the national Phase

Information not yet available

##  Annexes

Annex LY.I - Fees

Information not yet available

Forms

Please refer to the Office.

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Change(s) as of 15 September 2023 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference.
Mouse hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (see “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 19 May 2023, pages 118 _et seq._

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

  

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

200 CHF

  

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

300 CHF

  

Close

Current version applicable from 15 Sep 2023 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

