####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
MA - Useful informationMA - International PhaseMA - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationMA - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeMA - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialMA - National PhaseMA - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseMA - The procedure in the national PhaseMA - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide MA - Morocco  
Moroccan Office of Industrial and Commercial Property (OMPIC)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **25 April 2024**

(published on 26 April 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
GENERAL INFO: Payment methods  
RO: Electronic filing, Incorporation by reference  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase: National phase,
Restoration of the right of priority, Reinstatement of rights  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for MA - Moroccan Office of Industrial and Commercial Property \(OMPIC\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Moroccan Office of Industrial and Commercial Property (OMPIC)

Law: Law No 17-97 on the Protection of Industrial Property (as modified and
completed by Law No 31-05 in 2006 and Law No 23-13 in 2014)

Decree: Decree No 2-14-316 amending and supplementing Decree No 2-00-368
implementing Law No 17-97 on the Protection of Industrial Property (as
modified and completed by Law No 31-05 in 2006 and Law No 23-13 in 2014)

List of currencies used in this document:

CHF (Swiss franc), MAD (Moroccan dirham)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=MA).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Morocco

Two-letter code:

[MA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MA&doc-lang=EN)

Morocco - Moroccan Office of Industrial and Commercial Property (OMPIC)

Name of Office:

Moroccan Office of Industrial and Commercial Property (OMPIC)

Location:

Route de Nouasser  
R.S. 114  
Km 9,5-Sidi Maarouf  
Casablanca  
Morocco

Mailing address:

B.P. 8072  
Casablanca Oasis  
Casablanca  
Morocco

Telephone:

(212-522) 58 64 00/10

E-mail:

_For enquiries concerning PCT applications:_

pct@ompic.ma

Website:

<http://www.ompic.ma>

Facsimile:

(212-522) 33 54 80

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

Yes, the Office is prepared to allow applicants to make international and
national applications available to the WIPO DAS

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[MA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MA&doc-lang=EN)

Morocco - Moroccan Office of Industrial and Commercial Property (OMPIC)

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[MA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MA&doc-lang=EN)

Morocco - Moroccan Office of Industrial and Commercial Property (OMPIC)

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents

European:

Validation of European patents

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

The payment of fees shall be effected in Moroccan dirhams. All payments must
indicate the application number (national, if already known; international, if
the national application number is not yet known), the name of the applicant
and the category of fee being paid.

The payment of fees may be effected in cash or by check.

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

The applicant enjoys the rights defined in Law No. 17-97 on the Protection of
Industrial Property (as modified and completed by Law No. 31-05 in 2006 and
Law No. 23-13 in 2014 (refer to articles 16, 44 and 51) as from the date of
publication of the international application under PCT Article 21

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

If the data concerning the inventor are not in the request, they must be
furnished within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1).

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Morocco

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3).

French

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Same as above

Language in which the request may be filed:

French

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 6 April 2017, pages 63 _et seq._ and 10 November 2022,
page 300.

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

No

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

Yes

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, please refer to the Office for the applicable criteria for such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

,

[SE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SE&doc-lang=EN)

Sweden - Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

1,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

,

[SE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SE&doc-lang=EN)

Sweden - Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

None

International filing fee:

1,330 CHF

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

15 CHF

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

200 CHF

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

300 CHF

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(AT)  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(RU)  
Annex D(SE)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

None

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

None

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

Yes, if the applicant is a legal person, or a natural person not resident in
Morocco

Who can act as agent?

Any natural or legal person resident in Morocco

Waiver of power of attorney:

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Refer to the Office

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Refer to the Office

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

At the time of filing (must be in the description)

— any additional indications:

At the time of filing

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, relevant information on the
characteristics of the microorganism

Additional information

Deposits of microorganisms for the purposes of patent procedure before the
Moroccan Office of Industrial and Commercial Property (OMPIC) must be made
before the filing date of the international application with any depositary
institution having acquired the status of international depositary authority
under the Budapest Treaty on the Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms
for the Purposes of Patent Procedure (Art. 34 of Law No. 17-97 on the
Protection of Industrial Property as amended by Law Nos. 23-13 and 31-05).

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(3): 31 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes, the Office permits reinstatement of rights under the ""unintentional""
criterion if a request is submitted within the prescribed time limit and the
conditions set out in Article 14.4 of Law 17/97 are met.

Fee for reinstatement

Fees are subject to a value added tax (VAT) of 20%.

4,000 MAD

2,000 MAD 2

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Arabic,

French

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, as originally filed and
as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any text matter
of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

The applicant should only send a copy of the international application if
he/she has not received Form PCT/IB/308 and the Office has not received a copy
of the international application from the International Bureau under PCT
Article 20. This may be the case where the applicant expressly requests an
earlier start of the national phase under PCT Article 23(2).

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

No

National fees:

The complete list of the Office’s national fees is available at:  
<http://www.ompic.ma/en/content/patent/tariffs>

Fees are subject to value added tax (VAT) of 20%

The amount in parentheses is applicable to applications filed online. For
further information on the online filing of patent applications with the
Office, please contact the Office at: pct@ompic.ma

Filing fee

1,000 MAD

(750 MAD)

500 MAD 2

(250 MAD) 2

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Publication fee

1,000 MAD

(750 MAD)

500 MAD 2

(250 MAD) 2

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Additional fee for publication of claims in excess of 10

per claim 400 MAD

per claim 160 MAD 2

Fee for establishment of the search report with opinion on patentability

8,000 MAD

(6,000 MAD)

4,000 MAD 2

(2,000 MAD) 2

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

Refer to Summary and Annex MA.I

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in Morocco

Instrument of assignment of the international application if the applicant has
changed after the international filing date

Document evidencing a change of name of the applicant if the change occurred
after the international filing date and has not been reflected in a
notification from the International Bureau (Form PCT/IB/306)

Who can act as agent?

Any natural or legal person resident in Morocco

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

No

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, please refer to the Office for the applicable criteria and/or any fee
payable for such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

MA.01 FORM FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

The Office has available a form for filing a patent application (Form B1) that
can be downloaded from the following link:
<http://www.ompic.ma/fr/content/formulaires-brevets-invention> (refer to Annex
MA.II).

MA.02 MINIMUM FILE REQUIREMENTS FOR NATIONAL PHASE ENTRY

Law Art. No. 30,  Law Art. No. 31,  Law Art. No. 32,  Law Art. No. 8 (par. 2),
Decree Art. No. 4  
Applicants can use the completed form for filing a patent application (Form
B1) to enter the national phase before the Office. Where, at the time of entry
into the national phase, one or more of the documents to be submitted together
with the form are missing from the patent application file, the applicant or
agent has a period of three months from the date of entry into the national
phase to bring the file into conformity with the requirements. Payment of the
patent filing and search fees must be made within a period of one month from
the date of entry into the national phase. If one of the above-mentioned
deadlines is not met, the patent application is considered to be withdrawn. In
that case, the applicant or agent may file a request for continuation of
proceedings within a period of two months (refer to paragraph MA.13).

MA.03. LANGUAGE OF PROCEEDINGS

Decree Art. No. 2  
The language of proceedings is Arabic or French.

MA.04 TRANSLATION OF THE DESCRIPTION

Decree Art. No. 5  
A translation of the description will be required if the patent application
was filed in a language other than the working languages of the Office. This
translation must be furnished within a period of three months from the date of
entry into the national phase.

MA.05 CORRECTION OF ERRORS

Law Art. No. 39  
Prior to the granting of the patent and on the basis of a substantiated
request, the applicant or agent may request the correction of linguistic or
transcription errors, as well as clerical errors in the documents filed. Where
the request for correction relates to the description, the claims or the
drawings, this correction is only admissible if it is obvious, and no other
text or line could possibly have been intended by the applicant. A request for
correction is filed using the form for correction of linguistic errors,
transcription errors or clerical errors (Form B2), which can be downloaded
from the following link: <http://www.ompic.ma/fr/content/formulaires-brevets-
invention> (refer to Annex MA.III).

MA.06 REPRESENTATION

Law Art. No. 4  
Any applicant who is a legal or natural person not resident in Morocco must be
represented by an agent having their residence or place of business in
Morocco. A power of attorney must be furnished, except if the agent is
included in the list of patent attorneys maintained by the Office:
<http://www.ompic.ma/sites/default/files/NOTEINFORMATIONN52017.pdf> except for
operations relating to the termination or transmission of rights, which
require a power of attorney.

MA.07 DEED OF ASSIGNMENT

PCT Rule 51 _bis_.1,  PCT Rule 51 _bis_.2  
Where the patent application entering the national phase is filed by an
applicant other than the one who filed the international application, a deed
of assignment of the international application must be furnished, or, as the
case may be, a justification of the applicant’s change of name must be
furnished if this change has not been reflected in a communication from the
International Bureau (Form PCT/IB/306).

MA.08 INFORMATION ON EARLIER APPLICATIONS

Law Art. No. 8  
Pursuant to Article No. 8 of the Law, an applicant wishing to claim a priority
must include on Form B1, at the time of filing of the patent application, the
information relating to the priority by indicating: i) the earlier filing
date, ii) the number of the earlier application and iii) the country of origin
of this filing.

MA.09 EXAMINATION

Law Art. No. 43  
If the formal requirements to be fulfilled by a patent application are met,
the Office establishes a preliminary search report, together with an opinion
on the patentability of said application, based on the claims and taking into
account the description and drawings, if any, in order to determine whether
the invention meets the requirements of patentability. The report is then
communicated to the applicant or agent, who has a period of three months from
the date of communication to respond, if necessary (refer to paragraph MA.10).

Law Art. No. 44  
Any patent application that has not been rejected or withdrawn is published in
the publication server of the Office.

Law Art. No. 14.3  
Within two months from the publication date of said patent application, third
party observations may be submitted to the Office. These observations may bear
on the criteria required for the patent to be valid. The Office communicates
these without delay to the applicant or agent, who has a period of two months
to respond, if necessary.

Law Art. No. 43.2  
A final search report is established on the basis of the preliminary search
report and taking into account, where applicable, the final set of claims
filed (refer to paragraph MA.10 below), any observations filed by the
applicant in support of the remaining claims and any third party observations.

Law Art. No. 41  
Where there are no reasons for rejection under Article 41 in respect of all or
some of the claims, the patent is granted for the claims in full or in part
and is published under the category B1 in the publication server of the
Office: <http://www.patent.ompic.ma/>. If this is not the case, a
substantiated partial or total rejection of the patent application is issued
in respect of the claims containing one of the reasons for rejection under
Article 41, and the applicant or agent is informed of the rejection decision.

Law Art. No. 14.2  
Within two months from the date of communication of a rejection decision taken
by the Office, the applicant or agent may submit observations against this
decision (Form ODR, refer to Annex MA.IV) if they have arguments that might
change the examiner’s opinion. If the observations submitted are of such a
nature as to change the rejection decision, a new decision is established in
the light of said observations.

MA.10 AMENDMENT OF THE PATENT APPLICATION

Law Art. No. 43.1  
When the preliminary search report and the opinion on patentability are
established, they are promptly communicated to the applicant or agent,
together with the final title and abstract of the invention. The applicant has
a period of three months as of the date of communication of the preliminary
search report and the opinion on patentability to amend the claims or submit
observations in support of the remaining claims, as the case may be (Form B10,
refer to Annex MA.V).

The claims cannot be amended in such a way that they extend the subject matter
of the invention beyond the content of the application as originally filed.

MA.11 ABSENCE OF UNITY OF INVENTION

Law Art. No. 38.1,  Law Art. No. 38.2  
If the application does not meet the requirement of unity of invention
(Article No. 38 of the Law), the applicant or agent may, on their own
initiative or when invited to do so by the Office, divide or limit the
originally-filed patent application if it has not been rejected, withdrawn or
granted. A divisional application can only be filed for features that do not
extend beyond the content of the application as originally filed.

MA.12 ANNUAL FEES

Law Art. No. 82  
Renewal fees for a patent application must be paid to the Office for the years
following that in which the patent has been granted. The owner of a patent who
has not paid the renewal fees within the prescribed time limit may incur the
loss of his rights. However, the fees may validly be paid within a further
six-month period as of the date of expiry of the time limit; in this case, a
surcharge is added for each month of delay in payment (refer to Annex MA.I).

If the renewal fees have not been paid by the end of the additional six-month
period, the owner of a patent loses his rights, and a written and
substantiated decision of the Office as to the loss of rights is communicated
to the owner of the patent or the agent.

MA.13 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Article 48.2,  PCT Rule 82 _bis_ ,  Law Art. No. 14.1,  Decree Art. No.
3.1  
Where the time limits for performing certain operations relating to entry into
the national phase have not been observed, a request for the continuation of
the procedure relating to said operations may be submitted by the applicant or
agent to the Office within a period of two months from the date of expiry of
said time limits, provided the fees are paid. When this time limit expires, if
no request for the continuation of the procedure is submitted to the Office, a
request for the reinstatement of rights can be envisaged, if necessary.

Law Art. No. 84,  Decree Art. No. 42  
The owner of a patent may, within a period of three months from the date of
communication of the loss of rights decision (refer to paragraph MA.12),
submit an appeal to the Office for the reinstatement of his rights, if there
were legitimate grounds for the failure to pay the renewal rights for the
patent.

MA.14 REVIEW UNDER PCT ARTICLE 25

PCT Article 25,  PCT Rule 51  
The applicable procedure is set forth in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
national phase.

##  Annexes

Annex MA.I - Fees

Fees are subject to a value added tax (VAT) of 20%

The complete list of the Office’s national fees is available at:  
<http://www.ompic.ma/en/content/patent/tariffs>

The amount in parentheses is applicable to applications filed online. For
further information on online filing of patent applications with the Office,
please contact the Office at pct@ompic.ma

Filing fee

1,000 MAD

(750 MAD)

500 MAD 2

(250 MAD) 2

Publication fee

1,000 MAD

(750 MAD)

500 MAD 2

(250 MAD) 2

Additional fee for publication of claim(s) in excess of 10, per claim

400 MAD

160 MAD 2

Fee for establishment of the search report with opinion on patentability

8,000 MAD

(6,000 MAD)

4,000 MAD 2

(2,000 MAD) 2

Grant fee

4,000 MAD

(3,000 MAD)

2,000 MAD 2

(1,000 MAD) 2

Fee for issuing a patent of invention with the contents of the patent in paper
format

4,000 MAD

plus, per page 10 MAD

(3,000 MAD)

2,000 MAD 2

(1,000 MAD) 2

Annual fees:

— from the 2nd to the 5th year

per year 1,000 MAD

per year 250 MAD 2

— for the 6th year

1,600 MAD

400 MAD 2

— for the 7th year

2,000 MAD

500 MAD 2

— for the 8th year

2,400 MAD

600 MAD 2

— for the 9th year

2,800 MAD

700 MAD 2

— for the 10th year

4,000 MAD

1,000 MAD 2

— from the 11th to the 15th year

per year 6,000 MAD

per year 1,500 MAD 2

— from the 16th to the 20th year

per year 10,000 MAD

per year 2,500 MAD 2

Fee for request for restoration or extension of the term of protection

2,000 MAD

500 MAD 2

Fee for extension of the protection period

40,000 MAD

10,000 MAD 2

Late payment fee for the payment of the fees due in respect of each year
(patent annuities) per month of delay incurred

25% of the amount of the annual fee  
with a minimum of 240 MAD

Fee for restoration

100% of the annual fee due in addition  
to the amount of the late payment fee

Fee for request for further processing and the like

50% of the amount due for the proceedings which  
are the subject of the request for further processing

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of fees shall be effected in Moroccan dirhams. All payments must
indicate the application number (national, if already known; international, if
the national application number is not yet known), the name of the applicant
and the category of fee being paid

The payment of fees may be effected in cash or by check

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex MA.II - Form for filing an application for a patent of invention
(B1)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_ma.pdf)

[Annex MA.III - Form for request for rectification of errors of expression,
transcription or clerical errors
(B2)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_ma.pdf)

[Annex MA.IV - Form for applicant’s observations following a rejection
decision (ODR)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_IV_ma.pdf)

[Annex MA.V - Form for amendment of the claims/observations following
notification of the preliminary search report
(B10)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_V_ma.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office, by the Austrian Patent Office or by the Swedish
Intellectual Property Office (PRV).  
2 ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z { | } This amount is applicable for natural persons (whether nationals or foreigners, from countries benefiting from the PCT reduction) and for national applicants (MA) in the following categories: very small enterprises, small or medium-sized enterprises (in accordance with the criteria of the SME charter), self-employed entrepreneurs, craftsmen, universities and educational establishments, institutions with a research and development mission (public establishments, foundations, research centers and associations).   

Change(s) as of 25 April 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental Organization

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

The payment of fees shall be effected in Moroccan dirhams. All payments must
indicate the application number (national, if already known; international, if
the national application number is not yet known), the name of the applicant
and the category of fee being paid.

The payment of fees may be effected in cash or by check.

  

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

  

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

No

  

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

Yes

  

  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes, the Office permits reinstatement of rights under the ""unintentional""
criterion if a request is submitted within the prescribed time limit and the
conditions set out in Article 14.4 of Law 17/97 are met.

Fee for reinstatement

Fees are subject to a value added tax (VAT) of 20%.

4,000 MAD

2,000 MAD

  

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

No

  

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

No

  

Close

Current version applicable from 25 Apr 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

