####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  
MC - Useful informationMC - International PhaseMC - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationMC - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeMC - National Phase

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide MC - Monaco  
Intellectual Property Division, Department of Economic Expansion (Monaco)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **15 September 2023**

(published on 15 September 2023)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
From now on, you will find here a summary of changes to each new version of
the PCT Applicant's Guide, as well as the detailed list of these changes.
Moreover, you can now easily access the historical versions of the Guide.  
  
GENERAL INFO: WIPO DAS  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for MC - Intellectual Property Division, Department of Economic Expansion
\(Monaco\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Intellectual Property Division, Department of Economic Expansion
(Monaco)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=MC).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Monaco

Two-letter code:

[MC](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MC&doc-lang=EN)

Monaco - Intellectual Property Division, Department of Economic Expansion
(Monaco)

Name of Office:

Intellectual Property Division, Department of Economic Expansion (Monaco)

Location:

9 rue du Gabian  
MC 98000 Monaco (Principauté)

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(377) 98 98 98 01

E-mail:

mcipo@gouv.mc

Website:

<http://mcipo.gouv.mc>

Facsimile:

(377) 92 05 75 20

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

For further details, refer to:  
<https://www.wipo.int/das/en/participating_offices/details.jsp?id=12646>.

Yes, the Office is prepared to allow applicants to make national applications
filed in electronic form available to the WIPO DAS

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Types of protection available via the PCT:

European patents

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

Designation for the purposes of a European patent:

(1) International application published in one of the EPO official languages:
damages, possibly seizure of the articles infringing the patent; however, the
court hearing the infringement action stays proceedings until the patent is
granted; any national requirements relating to the translation of the claims
in the application must be met.

(2) International application published in a language which is not an EPO
official language: the protection referred to in (1) does not become effective
until the EPO publishes the international application supplied to it in one of
its official languages.

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

No

For a European patent

Refer to [Annex B(EP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=ep&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

The Office does not act as receiving Office

This Office has delegated its RO functions to RO/EP. Refer to [Annex
C(EP)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-
lang=EN&doc-type=ANNEX) for more information.

##  National Phase

The Office closed the national route

Refer to [National Chapter(EP)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-
doc.xhtml?doc-code=ep&doc-lang=en)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Change(s) as of 15 September 2023 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference.
Mouse hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental Organization

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

For further details, refer to:  
<https://www.wipo.int/das/en/participating_offices/details.jsp?id=12646>.

Yes, the Office is prepared to allow applicants to make national applications
filed in electronic form available to the WIPO DAS

  

Close

Current version applicable from 15 Sep 2023 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

