####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
MD - Useful informationMD - International PhaseMD - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationMD - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeMD - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialMD - National PhaseMD - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseMD - The procedure in the national PhaseMD - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide MD - Republic of Moldova  
State Agency on Intellectual Property (Republic of Moldova)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **1 March 2024**

(published on 1 February 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
RO: RO fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 1 Jan 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for MD - State Agency on Intellectual Property \(Republic of Moldova\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: State Agency on Intellectual Property (Republic of Moldova)

MPL: Moldovan Law on the Protection of Inventions

List of currencies used in this document:

EUR (Euro), USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=MD).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Article 64(5)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Republic of Moldova

Two-letter code:

[MD](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MD&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Moldova - State Agency on Intellectual Property (Republic of
Moldova)

Name of Office:

State Agency on Intellectual Property (Republic of Moldova)

Location:

24/1 A. Doga St.  
MD-2024 Chisinau  
Republic of Moldova

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(373-22) 40 05 00  
(373-22) 18 85 06

E-mail:

office@agepi.gov.md

Website:

<http://www.agepi.gov.md>

Facsimile:

(373-22) 18 86 99

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes, within one month from the date of the transmission, if the transmitted
document is the international application or a replacement sheet containing
corrections or amendments of the international application  
No, only upon invitation in the case of other documents

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes, provided that the delivery service is:  
DHL  
Federal Express

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[MD](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MD&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Moldova - State Agency on Intellectual Property (Republic of
Moldova)

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[MD](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MD&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Moldova - State Agency on Intellectual Property (Republic of
Moldova)

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents

Short-term patents

European:

Validation of European patents

For international applications filed on or after 1 November 2015 refer to:  
<http://www.epo.org/law-practice/legal-texts/officialjournal/information-
epo/archive/20151009.html>

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

The publication of the translation into Moldovan of the international
application gives the applicant provisional protection in the sense that he,
upon grant of the patent, is entitled to damages (refer to Art. 43(3) and Art.
19 of the Moldova Law on the Protection of Inventions). International patent
applications shall be published within six months from the date on which the
national phase was entered (refer to Art. 49(4) of the Moldova Law on the
Protection of Inventions).

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If the data concerning the inventor are missing at the
expiration of the time limit under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will
invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit fixed
in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Republic of Moldova

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3).

English,

French,

German,

Russian

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

The Office has not specifically notified the International Bureau of the
language that it accepts under PCT Rule 12.1(d).

Same as above

Language in which the request may be filed:

English,

French,

German,

Russian

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

3

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 31 October 2019, pages 159 _et seq._

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C
of the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
If the receiving Office does not accept international applications in
electronic form in such format, the international application will be
transmitted to the International Bureau as receiving Office (PCT Rule
19.4(a)(ii-_bis_)).

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies both the “unintentional” and the “due care” criteria
to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

1,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

100 EUR

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

235 USD

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

352 USD

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(RU)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

20 EUR

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

100 EUR

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in the Republic of Moldova  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any person registered to practice before the Office as patent attorney

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent or a common
representative who was not indicated on the request form at the time of filing

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent or a common
representative who was not indicated on the request form at the time of filing

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

None

— any additional indications:

None

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, relevant information on the
characteristics of the microorganism

Additional information

The deposit may be made with a depositary institution designated by the
Government or with institutions which have the status of international
depositary authority not later than the filing date of the international
application.

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(3): 31 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished within three months from the expiration of the time limit
applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)

Moldovan

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished within three months from the expiration of the time limit
applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

The applicant should only send a copy of the application if he has not
received Form PCT/IB/308 and the Office has not received a copy of the
international application from the International Bureau under PCT Article 20.
This may be the case where the applicant expressly requests an earlier start
of the national phase under PCT Article 23(2)

National fees:

Patents

Filing fee

100 EUR

Must be paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)

Fee for claiming priority

100 EUR

Examination fee, including search

400 EUR

Annual fee for the 1st to the 5th year

per year 100 EUR

Short-term patents

Filing fee

100 EUR

Must be paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)

Examination fee

200 EUR

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

Refer to:  
<http://agepi.gov.md/en/inventions/fees>

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit of two months from the date of receipt of the
invitation

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application 2

Instrument of assignment of the priority right where the applicants are not
identical 2

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in the Republic of
Moldova

Any document relating to any transfer of rights 2

Who can act as agent?

Any person registered to practice before the Office as patent attorney

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies both the “unintentional” and the “due care” criteria
to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

MD.01 FORMS FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

The Office has available a special form for entering the national phase (refer
to Annex MD.II). This form should be used.

MD.02 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

MD.03 REPRESENTATION

MPL Art. 86  
Natural or legal persons having their residence or principal place of business
outside the territory of the Republic of Moldova shall be represented by a
patent agent registered to practice with the Office, except for the filing of
a patent application, the payment of fees or the filing of an earlier
application. A list of registered patent agents is available on the website of
the Office.

MD.04 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

MPL Art. 61  
The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex MD.I.

MD.05 EXAMINATION

MPL Art. 51  
A patent will only be granted after substantive examination by the Office. A
request for examination should be filed prior to the expiry of 30 months from
entry into the national phase. The request shall only be deemed to be filed
upon payment of the examination fee and may not be withdrawn. There is a
special form for the request (refer to Annex MD.III). The amount of the said
fee is indicated in Annex MD.I.

MD.06 FEE FOR GRANT

A fee for grant must be paid within six months from the date of publication of
the decision to grant the patent.

MD.07 ANNUAL FEES

MPL Art. 61,  MPL Art. 93  
After a patent has been granted, annual fees must be paid for maintaining the
patent in force for each year calculated from the first year of the
international filing date. The first annual fee is to be paid simultaneously
with payment of the fee for grant. If the decision to grant the patent was
taken within one year or more from the international filing date of the
application, the fee should be paid for each complete year starting with the
filing date. All subsequent fees are to be paid before the beginning of the
year for which the fee is due but not earlier than three months from the date
of the following year of validity. Payment can still be made, upon request for
extension of the time limit together with the payment of a corresponding fee,
within six months from the final date. The amounts of the annual fees and of
the surcharge for late payment are indicated in Annex MD.I.

MD.08 SHORT-TERM PATENT

PCT Art. 4(3),  PCT Art. 43,  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1(a),  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1(b),
PCT Rule 76.5  
If the applicant wishes to obtain a short-term patent in the Republic of
Moldova on the basis of an international application instead of a patent, such
an indication should be made to the Office on entry into the national phase.

MD.09 TERM OF A SHORT-TERM PATENT

MPL Art. 18,  MPL Art. 61,  MPL Art. 93  
The term of a short-term patent shall be six years from the date of filing of
the short-term patent application. The patent owner may file with the Office a
request for extension of the time limit for a period not exceeding four years,
provided that the patent owner requests the Office to carry out a search of
the state of the art and establish a search report accompanied by a written
opinion on patentability relating to the invention which forms the subject-
matter of the respective patent on payment of the prescribed fee. Fees for
maintenance of a short-term patent shall be due on the anniversary of the date
of filing of the application and for each year of effectiveness of the
certificate.

MD.10 CONVERSION

MPL Art. 54  
A patent application may be converted, at the request of the applicant, into
an application for a short-term patent prior to the date on which the decision
to grant a patent is published or, at the latest, within two months following
the date on which a decision to refuse the patent application has been sent.
An application for a short-term patent may be converted, at the request of the
applicant, into a patent application at any time before the decision to grant
a short-term patent has been taken.

MD.11 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. If, upon review under PCT Article 25, the Office denies an
error or omission on the part of the receiving Office or the International
Bureau, an appeal against this decision may be lodged with the Office.

MD.12 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2),  PCT Rule 82 _bis_  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase. Where,
during the international phase or before the Office, the applicant has missed
a time limit for performing any act in relation to the international
application or the patent, such time limit may be extended and restored by the
Office upon request by the applicant and where justified.

MD.13 SUPPLEMENTARY PROTECTION CERTIFICATE

MPL Art. 4(2)c),  MPL Art. 18,  MPL Art. 69,  MPL Art. 70  
A supplementary protection certificate is available to the owner of a patent
with effect in the Republic of Moldova, the subject matter of which is a
medicinal or a phytopharmaceutical product (basic patent) for which marketing
authorization has been granted. The application for the grant of a
supplementary protection certificate shall be filed within six months
following the date of issuance of the marketing authorization, or, if the
authorization has been issued prior to the grant of the initial patent, the
application shall be filed within six months from the date of grant of the
patent. The application shall not be deemed filed until after the prescribed
fees have been paid. Fees for maintenance of a supplementary protection
certificate shall be due on the anniversary of the date of filing of the
application. The amounts of the fees are indicated in Annex MD.I.

##  Annexes

Annex MD.I - Fees

Patents

Filing fee

100 EUR

Fee for claiming priority

100 EUR

Substantive examination, including search

400 EUR

— for each independent claim, as originally filed or as amended, in excess of
one

100 EUR

— for each dependent claims, as originally filed or as amended, in excess of
five

10 EUR

— fee per sheet in excess of 15

10 EUR

Fee for grant :

— up to 15 pages

100 EUR

— fee per sheet in excess of 15

10 EUR

Annual fees:

— for the 1st to the 5th year, per year

100 EUR

— for the 6th to the 10th year, per year

300 EUR

— for the 11th to the 15th year, per year

500 EUR

— for the 16th to the 20th year, per year

700 EUR

Surcharge for late payment of the annual fee

— for each month (but not more than six months)

50 EUR

Fee for restoration of rights

100 EUR

Short-term patents

Filing fee

100 EUR

Fee for claiming priority

100 EUR

Fee for examination

200 EUR

Fee for grant :

— up to 15 pages

100 EUR

— fee per sheet in excess of 15

10 EUR

Annual fees:

— for the 1st to the 6th year, per year

100 EUR

Filing and examination of the request for extension of the term of validity
for short-term patent, including search and establishment of search report
with written opinion on patentability

300 EUR

Publication and issuance of extended short-term patent, including the printing
of patent with search report

20 EUR

Maintenance of short-term patent after extension, for the 7th to the 10th
year, per year

200 EUR

Supplementary protection certificate

Filing and examination of the request to grant a supplementary protection
certificate

300 EUR

Fee for grant

100 EUR

Maintenance of supplementary protection certificate, per year:

700 EUR

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of fees must be effected in euro. All payments must indicate the
application number (national, if already known; international, if the national
number is not yet known), the name of the applicant and the category of fee
being paid

AGEPI accounts – Foreign applicants (EUR)

Beneficiary  
MF-Trezoreria de Stat  
Agentia de Stat pentru Proprietatea Intelectuala

Code IBAN  
MD55TRPAAA142310A15851AA

Beneficiary Bank  
National Bank of Moldova  
Chisinău  
Republic of Moldova

SWIFT Code  
NBMDMD2X

Intermediary bank  
De Nederlandsche Bank N.V.  
Amsterdam  
Netherlands

IBAN  
NL90FLOR0600126226

SWIFT Code  
FLORNL2ACAC

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex MD.II - National processing request form (Form
F-01-BI-003-E-02-0211)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_md.pdf)

[Annex MD.III - Request for examination (Form
F-01-BI-004-E-01-0212)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_md.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office.  
2 ^ a b c This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration
has been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  

Change(s) as of 1 March 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

  

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

235 USD

  

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

352 USD

  

Close

Current version applicable from 1 Mar 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

