####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  
ME - Useful informationME - International PhaseME - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationME - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeME - National Phase

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide ME - Montenegro  
Ministry of Economic Development and Tourism (Montenegro)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **11 April 2024**

(published on 12 April 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
GENERAL INFO: Payment methods  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicantâ€™s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for ME - Ministry of Economic Development and Tourism \(Montenegro\)\(knl\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Ministry of Economic Development and Tourism (Montenegro)

List of currencies used in this document:

EUR (Euro)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=ME).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Montenegro

Two-letter code:

[ME](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ME&doc-lang=EN)

Montenegro - Ministry of Economic Development and Tourism (Montenegro)

Name of Office:

Ministry of Economic Development and Tourism (Montenegro)

Location:

Rimski trg br. 46  
81 000 Podgorica  
Montenegro

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(382) 20 234 591

E-mail:

dragana.ranitovic@mek.gov.me

Website:

<http://www.gov.me/mek>

Facsimile:

None

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

1,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Any international application where the applicant has Montenegrin nationality
or has his/her residence or its seat in Montenegro, and which concerns an
invention of significance for the defence and security of Montenegro, will be
subject to compulsory filing with the Ministry of Defence in accordance with
Articles 124-125 of Montenegrin Patent Law, and shall thus not be filed with
the European Patent Office (EPO) nor the International Bureau.

Yes, filing restrictions apply to:  
Applications by nationals and residents

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Types of protection available via the PCT:

On 1 October 2022, the European Patent Convention entered into force in
Montenegro and Article 153a of Montenegrin Patent Law applies to all
international applications filed as of that date. Under this Article, any
designation or election of Montenegro in an international application filed as
of the date of entry into force of the EPC in Montenegro will have the effect
of a request for grant of a European patent for Montenegro. For further
information, please refer to the National Chapter EP.

European patents

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

Not applicable. The Office does not act as receiving Office and has closed its
national route.

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

Designation is made for the purposes of a European patent (refer to European
Patent Convention Articles 67, 150 and 158) and:

(1) the international application is published in one of the EPO official
languages: this gives the applicant the right to seek compensation reasonable
in the circumstances for any infringement; or

(2) the international application is published in a language which is not an
EPO official language: then the protection referred to in paragraph (1) does
not become effective until the EPO publishes the international application
supplied to it in one of its official languages.

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

No

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

The Office does not act as receiving Office

This Office has delegated its RO functions to RO/EP. Refer to [Annex
C(EP)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-
lang=EN&doc-type=ANNEX) for more information.

##  National Phase

The Office closed the national route

Refer to [National Chapter(EP)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-
doc.xhtml?doc-code=ep&doc-lang=en)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a For all international applications filed on or after 1 October 2022.  

Change(s) as of 11 April 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental Organization

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

Not applicable. The Office does not act as receiving Office and has closed its
national route.

  

Close

Current version applicable from 11 Apr 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

