####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
MK - Useful informationMK - International PhaseMK - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationMK - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeMK - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialMK - National PhaseMK - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseMK - The procedure in the national PhaseMK - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide MK - North Macedonia  
State Office of Industrial Property (North Macedonia)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **15 September 2023**

(published on 15 September 2023)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
From now on, you will find here a summary of changes to each new version of
the PCT Applicant's Guide, as well as the detailed list of these changes.
Moreover, you can now easily access the historical versions of the Guide.  
  
GENERAL INFO: Contact details  
RO: Languages, Electronic filing  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for MK - State Office of Industrial Property \(North Macedonia\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: State Office of Industrial Property (North Macedonia)

MPL: Law on Industrial Property

The text may be obtained on the Internet at:  
<http://www.ippo.gov.mk>

LAP: Law on Administrative Procedure

List of currencies used in this document:

CHF (Swiss franc), MKD (Macedonian denar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=MK).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

North Macedonia

Two-letter code:

[MK](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MK&doc-lang=EN)

North Macedonia - State Office of Industrial Property (North Macedonia)

Name of Office:

State Office of Industrial Property (North Macedonia)

Location:

Str. Dame Gruev  
No. 14  
1000 Skopje  
North Macedonia

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(389-2) 310 36 01

E-mail:

info@ippo.gov.mk

Website:

<http://www.ippo.gov.mk>

Facsimile:

(389-2) 313 71 49

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes, within 14 days from the date of the transmission, if the transmitted
document is the international application or a replacement sheet containing
corrections or amendments of the international application

No, only upon invitation in the case of other documents

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

provided that the delivery service is:  
DHL  
Federal Express

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[MK](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MK&doc-lang=EN)

North Macedonia - State Office of Industrial Property (North Macedonia)

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: MK

European patent: EP

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents

European:

Patents

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a European patent:

A published European patent application provisionally confers the protection
conferred by Articles 17(3), 17(4), 121(2), 291 and 294 of the Industrial
Property Act (rights to recover damages for infringement and prohibit
infringing acts) as from the date on which a translation of the claims of the
published European patent application into Macedonian has been communicated by
the applicant to the person using the invention in North Macedonia.

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

For national protection

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If the data concerning the inventor are missing at the
expiration of the time limit under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will
invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit fixed
in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

For a European patent

Refer to [Annex B(EP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=ep&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

North Macedonia

Language in which international applications may be filed:

English

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Same as above

Language in which the request may be filed:

English

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

3

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”)

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
If the receiving Office does not accept international applications in
electronic form in such format, the international application will be
transmitted to the International Bureau as receiving Office (PCT Rule
19.4(a)(ii-_bis_)).

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to Official Notices (PCT
Gazette) dated 19 May 2022, pages 135 _et seq._

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

2,700 MKD

International filing fee:

Equivalent in MKD of 1,330 CHF

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

Equivalent in MKD of 15 CHF

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

Equivalent in MKD of 200 CHF

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

Equivalent in MKD of 300 CHF

Search fee:

Equivalent in MKD of the search fee payable to the European Patent Office in
EUR:  
Refer to  
Annex D(EP)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

550 MKD

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

1,000 MKD

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in North Macedonia  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any natural or legal person registered to practice before the Office

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Not applicable

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Not applicable

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

None

— any additional indications:

At the time of filing (as part of the application)

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, relevant information on the
characteristics of the microorganism

Additional information

Deposits may also be made for the purposes of patent procedure before the
State Office of Industrial Property (North Macedonia) with any international
depositary institution recognized by the Office (a list is published in the
official journal of the Office). The furnishing of samples to a third party
may be subject to the condition that that party:

(a) has a right to demand that a sample of the viable biological or
microbiological material be made available

(b) has undertaken to ensure that the applicant does not authorize access to
the sample of the deposited viable biological or microbiological material to
any third party before the expiry of the prescribed period of validity of the
patent

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(3): 31 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Macedonian

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, as amended only,
together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any text matter of drawings

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings (if
any of those parts has been amended, only as amended by the annexes to the
international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Filing fee

800 MKD

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in North Macedonia

Statement justifying the applicant’s right to the priority application where
the applicants are not identical 1

Evidence concerning exceptions to lack of novelty if the applicant claims such
exceptions in respect of an international application

Furnishing, where applicable, of a nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence
listing in computer readable form

Who can act as agent?

Any natural or legal person registered to practice before the Office

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

MK.01 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

MK.02 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex MK.I.

MK.03 EXAMINATION

MPL Art. 52,  MPL Art. 56  
A patent will only be granted after substantive examination. Preferably, on
entry into the national phase, or within six months of this date the applicant
should furnish the Office with a statement concerning examination. This
statement shall indicate whether examination has been or shall be carried out
either by one of the PCT International Searching Authorities or International
Preliminary Examining Authorities (refer to Annex D or E), or a searching or
examining authority that has entered into an agreement for search and
examination with the Office or by the Office. The examination report should be
furnished to the Office together with a translation in Macedonian within six
months of the date of receipt.

MK.04

Where substantive examination by an authorized Office (refer to MK.03) has not
been performed prior to entry into the national phase, such a request must be
made within two years.

MK.05 REPRESENTATION

MPL Art. 22,  MPL Art. 279  
Where the ordinary residence or principal place of business of the applicant
is outside North Macedonia, an agent who is a resident of North Macedonia and
who is registered to practice before the Office must be appointed for the
purposes of national processing.

MK.06 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  MPL Art. 50  
The applicant may amend or correct the international application up to the
grant of a patent, provided that the scope of the subject matter of the
application is not broadened thereby.

MK.07 MAINTENANCE FEES

MPL Art. 24,  MPL Art. 86(2)  
Maintenance fees are due from the international filing date for maintaining
the patent in force. Payment of the maintenance fees for subsequent years must
be made before the anniversary of the international filing date of the
application. If payment is not made within this time limit, it may be made
together with a 25% surcharge, within three months after the due date or,
together with a 100% surcharge, within a further period of six months. The
amounts of the maintenance fees are indicated in Annex MK.I.

MK.08 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2),  PCT Rule 82 _bis_ ,  LAP Art. 106,  LAP Art.
107,  LAP Art. 108,  LAP Art. 109,  LAP Art. 110,  LAP Art. 111  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase. Where,
during the international phase or before the Office, the applicant has missed
a time limit for performing any act in relation to the international
application, such time limit may be extended by the Office. The excuse of
delay procedure is available to:

(1) parties which have been delayed in performing certain actions due to
justifiable reasons

(2) parties which have failed to submit the application in time because it was
submitted to an unauthorized authority due to lack of awareness or obvious
mistake; and

(3) parties which have missed prescribed deadlines due to lack of awareness or
obvious mistake but submit the application or relevant papers to the competent
authority within three days after the deadline and where delay would mean that
the party would lose rights

The request for excuse of delay must explain the circumstances which caused
the delay and include the paper(s) sought to be submitted late. The request
for excuse of delay must be submitted within eight days from the day on which
the circumstance which caused the delay ceased to exist, or, where the party
learned about its cessation only later, from the day the party learned of it.
Requests for excuse of delay are acceptable only up until three months from
the day when the delayed paper or action was due.

MK.09

MPL Art. 268,  MPL Art. 269,  MPL Art. 270  
Reinstatement of rights may be requested where the applicant, in spite of all
due care required by the circumstances, failed to observe a time limit set by
the Office, which is prejudicial to his rights. A request for reinstatement
must be presented in writing within three months after the removal of the
cause of the failure to observe the time limit and if the applicant has later
learned of this failure, counting from the day he learned of it, but not later
than twelve months from the expiration of the time limit which has not been
observed. Within the said three months, the omitted action must be completed,
the fee for reinstatement of rights and any late payment fees (refer to Annex
MK.I) must be paid and the request must set out the facts on which it relies.

MK.10

MPL Art. 265,  MPL Art. 266,  MPL Art. 267  
Continued processing may be requested where the applicant failed to observe a
time limit fixed by the Office and that failure directly causes a loss of
rights conferred by a patent application or a patent. The continued processing
may not be requestd for certain time limits set out in MPL Art. 267. The
request for continued processing must be filed within two months from the day
on which the applicant learned of the legal consequences. The Office shall
authorize continued processing if the applicant files a request, performs all
the omitted acts within the time limit, and pays the prescribed fee. After the
expiry of six months from the date of omission, continued processing may not
be requested.

MK.11 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51,  MPL 20  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. If upon review under PCT Article 25, the Office denies an
error or omission on the part of the receiving Office or the International
Bureau, an appeal against this decision may be filed with the Administrative
Court of Macedonia in accordance with the Law on Administrative Disputes
within 30 days from the date of receipt of the decision.

##  Annexes

Annex MK.I - Fees

Filing fee

800 MKD

Publication fee

1,500 MKD

Maintenance fees:

— for the 3rd year

800 MKD

— for the 4th year

1,000 MKD

— for the 5th year

1,200 MKD

— for the 6th year

1,400 MKD

— for the 7th year

1,600 MKD

— for the 8th year

1,800 MKD

— for the 9th year

2,000 MKD

— for the 10th year

3,000 MKD

— for the 11th year

4,000 MKD

— for the 12th year

5,000 MKD

— for the 13th year

6,000 MKD

— for the 14th year

7,000 MKD

— for the 15th year

8,000 MKD

— for the 16th year

9,000 MKD

— for the 17th year

10,000 MKD

— for the 18th year

11,000 MKD

— for the 19th year

12,000 MKD

— for the 20th year

13,000 MKD

Fee for restoration of the right of priority

1,000 MKD

Surcharge for the late payment of maintenance fees:

— fees paid within 3 months

25% of the amount due

— fees paid within 6 months

50% of the amount due

How can payment of fees be effected?

Filing and maintenance fees must be paid by money order, cheque or bank
transfer to a budget account of North Macedonia No. 1000 000 000 63095;
suspense account No. 840-identification of the municipality-03135; revenue
code: 722319; manner: 2. All payments should include the complete application
number, the name of the applicant and the type of fee being paid.

The publication fee must be paid to the account of the State Office of
Industrial Property (North Macedonia):  
Account No. 1000 000 000 63095; account user 1100200213-787-13; revenue code
and program: 724149-20; manner: 1; tax number of IPPO: 4030994253825,
depositor of National Bank.

Forms

Please refer to the Office.

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with Rule 4.17.  

Change(s) as of 15 September 2023 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference.
Mouse hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental Organization

Location:

Str. Dame Gruev  
No. 14  
1000 Skopje  
North Macedonia

  

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Same as above

  

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”)

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
If the receiving Office does not accept international applications in
electronic form in such format, the international application will be
transmitted to the International Bureau as receiving Office (PCT Rule
19.4(a)(ii-_bis_)).

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to Official Notices (PCT
Gazette) dated 19 May 2022, pages 135 _et seq._

  

Close

Current version applicable from 15 Sep 2023 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

