####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
MW - Useful informationMW - International PhaseMW - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationMW - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeMW - National PhaseMW - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseMW - The procedure in the national PhaseMW - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide MW - Malawi  
Ministry of Justice, Department of the Registrar General (Malawi)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **1 March 2024**

(published on 1 February 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
RO: RO fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 1 Jan 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for MW - Ministry of Justice, Department of the Registrar General
\(Malawi\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Ministry of Justice, Department of the Registrar General (Malawi)

MPA: Patents Act of Malawi

MPR: Patent Regulations of Malawi

MPT: Patents Tribunal Rules

List of currencies used in this document:

MWK (Malawian kwacha), USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=MW).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Malawi

Two-letter code:

[MW](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MW&doc-lang=EN)

Malawi - Ministry of Justice, Department of the Registrar General (Malawi)

Name of Office:

Ministry of Justice, Department of the Registrar General (Malawi)

Location:

Blantyre  
Malawi

Mailing address:

P.O. Box 100  
Blantyre  
Malawi

Telephone:

(265) 62 43 55  
(265) 62 44 56  
(265) 62 46 68  
(265) 62 47 95

E-mail:

None

Website:

None

Facsimile:

(265) 62 16 86

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes,

within 14 days from the date of the transmission

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[AP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AP&doc-lang=EN)

African Regional Intellectual Property Organization - African Regional
Intellectual Property Organization (ARIPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[MW](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MW&doc-lang=EN)

Malawi - Ministry of Justice, Department of the Registrar General (Malawi)

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: MW

ARIPO protection: AP

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents

Patents of addition

ARIPO:

Patents

Utility models (a utility model may be sought instead of or in addition to an
ARIPO patent)

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

For national protection

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If the data concerning the inventor are missing at the
expiration of the time limit under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will
invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit fixed
in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

No

For an ARIPO patent

Refer to [Annex B(AP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=AP&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Malawi

Language in which international applications may be filed:

English

Language in which the request may be filed:

English

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

3

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Information not yet available

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, please refer to the Office for the applicable criteria and/or any fee
payable for such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

6,000 MWK

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EP)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

None

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

Yes

Who can act as agent?

Any person registered as patent agent before the Office

Waiver of power of attorney:

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Refer to the Office

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Refer to the Office

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

English

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Fee for lodging complete specification

500 MWK

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application 1 2

Declaration concerning the inventor where the applicant is not the inventor 1
2

Appointment of an agent 1

Verified translation of priority document into English 3

Who can act as agent?

Any person registered as a patent attorney or attorney at law before the
Ministry of Justice of Malawi

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, please refer to the Office for the applicable criteria and/or any fee
payable for such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

MW.01 FORM FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

The national application form for lodging a complete specification (Patents
Form No. 6) may be used for entering the national phase, but its use is not
required (therefore, this form is not reproduced in an Annex).

MW.02 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003). For the applicable procedure,
refer to paragraph MW.10(i).

MW.03 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex MW.I.

MW.04 ADDRESS FOR SERVICE

MPR Rules 78,  MPR Rules 79,  MPR Rules 82(2)  
An applicant, irrespective of whether or not he is a national of or a resident
in Malawi, is not required to be represented by an agent, but he is required
to have an address for service (of notices and other communications) in
Malawi. If an agent in Malawi is appointed to represent the applicant for the
entry into the national phase, a written authorization is not required, though
the agent must be prepared to prove his authority to act if called upon to do
so by the Office.

MW.05 DECLARATION CONCERNING THE INVENTOR

MPA Sec. 12(3)  
Where the applicant is not the inventor, he must furnish a declaration that he
believes that the person indicated as inventor is the inventor and that he
owns the invention in respect of Malawi. This must be done in writing (there
is no special form for it) and signed by the applicant or his agent.
Legalization is not required.

MW.06 PRIORITY DOCUMENT (VERIFICATION OF TRANSLATION)

MPR Rule 7  
To verify the translation into English of a priority document, the translator
must declare that he believes the translation is true and complete.

MW.07 ADVERTISEMENT OF ACCEPTANCE

MPA Sec. 21(2)  
The applicant must, upon receipt of a notice from the Office that the
international application has been accepted (notice of acceptance), advertise
the acceptance in the Journal of the Office. Such advertisement must be
approved by the Registrar of the Office. To advertise the acceptance the
applicant must send the approved advertisement to the Government Printer, P.O.
Box 37, Zomba, Malawi, together with a fee for publication of advertisement
(refer to Annex MW.I).

MW.08 REQUEST FOR SEALING; TIME LIMIT

MPA Sec. 25,  MPR Rule 33  
If after the acceptance of the international application there is no
opposition to the grant of a patent or, if in the event of an opposition, the
final determination is in favor of the grant of a patent, the applicant must
make a request for the sealing of a patent to the Office. Such request must be
made on Patents Form No. 15 (refer to Annex MW.II), together with the payment
of the fee indicated in Annex MW.I. The request for the sealing of the patent
must be made not later than 22 months after the international filing date or,
where the time limit under PCT Article 39(1) applies, not later than 32 months
from the international filing date.

MW.09 RENEWAL FEES

MPA Sec. 32,  MPR Rules 37,  MPR Rules 38,  MPR Rules 39  
After a patent has been granted (sealed), the applicant must pay a renewal fee
for each year after the expiration of the third year counted from the
international filing date; payment must be made within six months from the
date of sealing by lodging Patents Form No. 19 (refer to Annex MW.III).
Payment for any succeeding year may be made in advance but not later than by
the expiration of that year. The Office may at its discretion grant an
extension of time not exceeding six months from the expiration of the year for
which the renewal fee is due. An application for extension of time shall be
made on Patents Form No. 20 and is subject to the payment of a fee for
extension of the period for payment of renewal fees. For the amounts of fees,
refer to Annex MW.I.

MW.10 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  MPA Sec. 43,  MPR Rules 54,  MPR Rules 55,  MPR
Rules 56  
The following modifications to the description, claims and drawings may be
made by the applicant:

(i) at any time, correction of clerical errors, omissions or obvious mistakes;
such corrections must be made on Patents Form No. 42 (refer to Annex MW.VI)
together with the payment of the related fee (refer to Annex MW.I);

(ii) until the acceptance of the application, amendments, provided that the
scope of the subject matter of the application is not broadened thereby; such
amendments must be made on Patents Form No. 30 (refer to Annex MW.IV) together
with the payment of the related fee (refer to Annex MW.I);

(iii) after the acceptance of the application, amendments, but only if they
are by way of disclaimer, correction or explanation and provided that the
scope of the subject matter of the application is not broadened thereby; such
amendments must be made on Patents Form No. 31 (refer to Annex MW.V) together
with the payment of the related fee (refer to Annex MW.I).

All modifications must be accompanied by a copy certified by the applicant or
his agent of those sheets on which the proposed amendment appears, clearly
showing in red ink the amendment sought.

MW.11 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51,  MPA Sec. 73,  MPA Sec. 80,  MPT Rule 3  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. If, upon review under PCT Article 25, the Office denies an
error or omission on the part of the receiving Office or the International
Bureau, an appeal against this decision may be lodged on Form P.T. No. 1 with
the Registrar of the Patents Tribunal within three months from the date of the
decision. On every appeal the related fee indicated in Annex MW.I must be paid
within the same time limit.

MW.12 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2),  PCT Rule 82 _bis_  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.
Restoration of rights may be requested where the applicant has failed to
observe a time limit during the international phase or before the Office. A
request to waive the requirement which was not observed is also possible. Any
such request must state the reasons for missing the time limit or for the
failure to observe the requirement and must be accompanied by evidence by
affidavit in support of the statements made. Where the restoration of a lapsed
patent is requested, application must be made on Patents Form No. 22 together
with the payment of the related fee (refer to Annex MW.I).

##  Annexes

Annex MW.I - Fees

Patent Form No. 6

Fee for lodging complete specification

500 MWK

Patent Form No. 15

On request for sealing of a patent

250 MWK

Patent Form No. 19

Renewal fees:

One-half only of the fees is payable on patents endorsed “Licences of Right”

— for the 4th to the 6th year, per year

165 MWK

— for the 7th to the 9th year, per year

180 MWK

— for the 10th year

200 MWK

— for the 11th year

200 MWK

— for the 12th year

250 MWK

— for the 13th year

250 MWK

— for the 14th year

300 MWK

— for the 15th year

350 MWK

— for the 16th year

400 MWK

Patent Form No. 20

On application for extension of the period of time for payment of renewal fee:

— not exceeding one month

150 MWK

— not exceeding two months

200 MWK

— not exceeding six months

250 MWK

Patent Form No. 22

On application for restoration of lapsed patent

— if made within one year of lapsing

500 MWK

— if made after one year of lapsing

550 MWK

Fee for publication of advertisement

150 MWK

Patent Form No. 30

On application for amendment of a specification not yet accepted

100 MWK

Patent Form No. 31

On application for amendment after acceptance

— up to sealing, by applicant

150 MWK

— after sealing, by patentee

180 MWK

Patent Form No. 42

On request for correction of clerical error

50 MWK

Patent Tribunal No. 1

Notice of appeal to Patents Tribunal

50 MWK

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of fees has to be effected in Malawian kwacha. All payments must
be made together with the filing of the form relating to the fee to be paid
and indicate the name of the applicant or patentee, the application number
(national, if already known; international, if the national number is not yet
known) or the number of the patent and the category of fee being paid

Fees may be paid by any of the following means: in cash at the Office or by
check drawn on a Malawian or foreign bank

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex MW.II - Request for the sealing of a patent (Patents Form No
15)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_mw.pdf)

[Annex MW.III - Payment of renewal fee (Patents Form No
19)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_mw.pdf)

[Annex MW.IV - Application for amendment of specification not yet accepted
(Patents Form No 30)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_IV_mw.pdf)

[Annex MW.V - Application for amendment after acceptance (Patents Form No
31)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_V_mw.pdf)

[Annex MW.VI - Request for correction of clerical error (Patents Form No
42)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_VI_mw.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a b c If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under
PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with
the requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.  
2 ^ a b This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  
3 ^ a If the validity of the priority claim is relevant to the determination
of whether the invention concerned is patentable.  

Change(s) as of 1 March 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

  

Close

Current version applicable from 1 Mar 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

