####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
MX - Useful informationMX - International PhaseMX - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationMX - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeMX - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialMX - National PhaseMX - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseMX - The procedure in the national PhaseMX - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide MX - Mexico  
Mexican Institute of Industrial Property

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **11 April 2024**

(published on 11 April 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
GENERAL INFO: Payment methods  
RO: Electronic filing, Incorporation by reference  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase: National phase,
Restoration of the right of priority, Reinstatement of rights  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 1 Jan 2024, 1 Mar 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for MX - Mexican Institute of Industrial Property)).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Mexican Institute of Industrial Property

MFL: Mexican Federal Law on Administrative Procedures

MPL: Mexican Patent Provisions under the Federal Law on the Protection of
Industrial Property

MPR: Mexican Patent Rules under the Industrial Property Regulations

List of currencies used in this document:

MXN (Mexican peso), USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=MX).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Rule 20.8(a), Rule 20.8(a-_bis_), Rule 20.8(b) , Rule 20.8(b-_bis_), Rule
49.6(f), Rule 49 _ter_.1(g), Rule 49 _ter_.2(h)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).  
PCT Rule 20.8(a-_bis_), The Offices (in their capacity as receiving Offices)
of the States listed in this table have notified the International Bureau (IB)
that new PCT Rules 20.5 _bis_(a)(ii) and 20.5 _bis_(d), are not compatible
and/or cannot be considered to be compatible with the national law applied by
the Office, or are deemed to have notified the IB of this incompatibility on
the basis of a notification made under PCT Rule 20.8(a) that remains in
effect.  
PCT Rule 20.8(b-_bis_), The Offices (in their capacity as designated Offices)
of the States listed in this table have notified the International Bureau (IB)
that PCT Rules 20.5 _bis_(a)(ii) and 20.5 _bis_(d), are not compatible and/or
cannot be considered to be compatible with the national law applied by the
Office, or are deemed to have notified the IB of this incompatibility on the
basis of a notification made under PCT Rule 20.8(b) that remains in effect.

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Mexico

Two-letter code:

[MX](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MX&doc-lang=EN)

Mexico - Mexican Institute of Industrial Property

Name of Office:

Mexican Institute of Industrial Property

Location:

Arenal 550  
Col. Pueblo Santa Maria Tepepan  
C.P. 16020  
Ciudad de México  
Mexico

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(52-55) 5334 07 00 (extensions 10606, 10010)

E-mail:

epct@impi.gob.mx

Website:

<http://www.impi.gob.mx>

Facsimile:

(52-55) 55 44 31

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

Yes, the Office is prepared to allow applicants to make international and
national applications available to the WIPO DAS

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[MX](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MX&doc-lang=EN)

Mexico - Mexican Institute of Industrial Property

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[MX](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MX&doc-lang=EN)

Mexico - Mexican Institute of Industrial Property

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Patents

Utility models

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

The Office as RO accepts as payment methods for international PCT
applications:  
— Option 1: Bank transfer.  
— Option 2: Payment at bank window.

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

After a patent has been granted, the applicant is entitled to damages for the
period following the international publication of the international
application. For that purpose, and if the international publication has not
been effected in Spanish, the applicant must submit to the Office a
translation of the international application into Spanish. The provisional
protection applies as from the date of publication in Spanish of the
international application.

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If not already complied with within the time limit
applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant
to comply with the requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Mexico

Language in which international applications may be filed:

Depending on the applicant’s choice of competent International Searching
Authority, a translation into a corresponding language (refer to Annex D) may
have to be furnished by the applicant (PCT Rule 12.3)

Spanish

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Spanish,

Spanish and English

Language in which the request may be filed:

Spanish

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 9 July 2015, pages 119 _et seq._

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
If the receiving Office does not accept international applications in
electronic form in such format, the international application will be
transmitted to the International Bureau as receiving Office (PCT Rule
19.4(a)(ii-_bis_)).

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

No

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

Yes

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies the “unintentional” criterion to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[CL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CL&doc-lang=EN)

Chile - National Institute of Industrial Property (Chile)

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[ES](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ES&doc-lang=EN)

Spain - Spanish Patent and Trademark Office

,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[SE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SE&doc-lang=EN)

Sweden - Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV)

,

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[CL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CL&doc-lang=EN)

Chile - National Institute of Industrial Property (Chile)

1,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

2,

[ES](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ES&doc-lang=EN)

Spain - Spanish Patent and Trademark Office

,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[SE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SE&doc-lang=EN)

Sweden - Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV)

,

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

1,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

1

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

This fee includes value added tax (VAT) of 16%.

— for a natural person

93.87 USD

— for a legal entity

375.50 USD

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

235 USD

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

352 USD

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(AT)  
Annex D(CL)  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(ES)  
Annex D(KR)  
Annex D(SE)  
Annex D(SG)  
Annex D(US)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

— for black and white copy:

per page 11.46 MXN

— for color copy:

per page 14.60 MXN

This fee is subject to a national tax of 16%

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

None

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Mexico  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any resident of Mexico

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Not applicable

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Not applicable

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

None

— any additional indications:

At the time of filing (must be in the description)

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, relevant information on the
characteristics of the microorganism

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

No

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Where the filing fee has been paid and a copy of the international application
has been provided to the Office within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the translation may be filed within two months from the
expiration of that time limit

Spanish

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Where the filing fee has been paid and a copy of the international application
has been provided to the Office within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the translation may be filed within two months from the
expiration of that time limit

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, as amended only,
together with any statement under Article 19), any text matter of drawings,
abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, only as amended by the
annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

The Office accepts color drawings when it is impossible to represent what you
want to show in a black and white drawing

National fees:

Must be paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)

This fee is subject to a national tax of 16%

Patents

Filing fee

— where the national phase is entered under PCT Article 22

3,147 MXN

—where the national phase is entered under PCT Article 39(1)

1,500 MXN

— fee per sheet in excess of 30

61 MXN

Utility models

Filing fee

— where the national phase is entered under PCT Article 22

2,000 MXN

—where the national phase is entered under PCT Article 39(1)

1,350 MXN

— fee per sheet in excess of 30

61 MXN

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

Applicants which are inventors, small or medium-sized enterprises, public or
private institutions of higher education or public sector scientific or
technological institutions may pay 50% of the applicable fees in accordance
with Title II of the Industrial Property Law as well as 50% of those related
to technical information.

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Document evidencing the entitlement to apply for a patent 3

Instrument of assignment where the applicants in the national phase and
international phase are not identical

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in Mexico

Who can act as agent?

Any resident of Mexico

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

No

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

No

##  The procedure in the national Phase

MX.01 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

MX.02 TRANSLATION (LATE FURNISHING OF)

MPL Art. 13,  MPR Art. 5(VII)¶3  
If the translation of the international application has not been furnished by
the applicant within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)
but the national fee indicated in the Summary has been paid and a copy of the
international application has been furnished within that time limit, the
translation can still be furnished within a further period of two months.

MX.03 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex MX.I.

MX.04 POWER OF ATTORNEY

MPL Art. 27 (I or II)  
If the applicant is not resident in Mexico, an agent must be appointed by
filing a simple power of attorney signed in the presence of two witnesses,
each of whom must sign that power and indicate his address. In addition, but
only in the case of an applicant which is a legal entity, the power must state
that the person signing on behalf of that legal entity has authority to do so
and must cite the relevant document supporting such statement. A model power
of attorney is given in Annex MX.II.

MX.05 INSTRUMENT OF ASSIGNMENT

MPL Art. 137,  MPR Art. 9(II)  
Where the applicant in the national phase is not identical to the applicant in
the international phase, he will be invited to furnish a certified copy or an
originally signed version of the document(s) containing the assignment of the
rights to the application.

MX.06 EXAMINATION

MPL Art. 50,  MPL Art. 110,  MPL Art. 111,  MPR Art 42,  MPR Art 43,  MPR Art
44,  MPR Art 45  
The Office examines patent applications as to substance. No request is
necessary and no special fee is required.

MX.07 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  MPL Art. 116  
The applicant may amend or correct the description, claims or drawings at any
time during the patent procedure before the notice of allowance, provided that
the scope of the subject matter of the application is not broadened thereby.

MX.08 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

MPL Art. 117  
The Office does not excuse the failure to comply with a time limit, either
during the international phase or during the national phase, unless otherwise
specified in this Chapter.

MX.09 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. If, upon review under PCT Article 25, the Office denies an
error or omission on the part of the receiving Office or the International
Bureau, an appeal against this decision may be lodged with the Office.

MX.10 UTILITY MODELS

PCT Art. 4(3),  PCT Art. 43,  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1,  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1(a),
PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1(b),  PCT Rule 76.5,  MPL Art. 58,  MPL Art. 59,  MPL Art.
60,  MPL Art. 61,  MPL Art. 62,  MPL Art. 63,  MPL Art. 64  
If the applicant wishes to obtain a utility model instead of a patent in
Mexico on the basis of an international application, the applicant, when
performing the acts referred to in Article 22 or 39, shall so indicate to the
Office.

MX.11 CONVERSION

MPL Art. 103,  MPR Art. 41  
An international application for a patent may be converted into a utility
model application, and _vice versa_ , within three months after the applicant
has performed the acts for entering the national phase indicated in the
Summary, or within three months from the date on which the Office has required
him to make the conversion, as long as the application has not become
abandoned. The applicant should submit proof of payment of the applicable fee
together with the request for conversion or upon compliance with the
requirements for conversion.

MX.12 APPEALS

MFL Art. 83  
The applicant may request reconsideration of a decision to refuse to grant a
patent or utility model by submitting to the Office, in writing, within 15
days from the date of the notification of refusal, a request for
reconsideration accompanied by any relevant documentation. A decision by the
Office denying reconsideration will be communicated to the applicant in
writing and published in the Gazette of the Office.

##  Annexes

Annex MX.I - Fees

The Office or the agent should be consulted for the applicable schedule of
fees

Patents

Filing fee

This fee is subject to a national tax of 16%

— where the national phase is entered under PCT Article 22

3,147 MXN

— where the national phase is entered under PCT Article 39(1)

1,500 MXN

— fee per sheet in excess of 30

61 MXN

Priority claim fee

per priority 1,066.17 MXN

Annual fees:

— for the 1st to the 5th years

per year 1,161.90 MXN

— for the 6th to the 10th years

per year 1,360.69 MXN

— for the 11th and each subsequent year

per year 1,536.99 MXN

Utility models

Filing fee

This fee is subject to a national tax of 16%

— where the national phase is entered under PCT Article 22

2,000 MXN

— where the national phase is entered under PCT Article 39(1)

1,350 MXN

— fee per sheet in excess of 30

61 MXN

Priority claim fee, per priority

1,066.17 MXN

Annual fees:

— for the 1st to the 3rd years

per year 1,099.39 MXN

— for the 4th to the 6th years

per year 1,122.83 MXN

— for the 7th and each subsequent year

per year 1,290.36 MXN

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of fees must be effected in Mexican pesos. All payments must
indicate the application number (national, if already known; international, if
the national application number is not yet known), the name of the applicant
and the category of fee being paid. All fees must be paid to the Office
through a person who has an address in the national territory. The applicant
must attach the payment receipt to his application.

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex MX.II - Power of
attorney](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_mx.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a b c The Office is competent only if the international search is or has
been carried out by that Office.  
2 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office, the Austrian Patent Office, the Spanish Patent and
Trademark Office or the Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV).  
3 ^ a This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  

Change(s) as of 11 April 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental Organization

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

The Office as RO accepts as payment methods for international PCT
applications:  
— Option 1: Bank transfer.  
— Option 2: Payment at bank window.

  

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

  

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

No

  

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

Yes

  

  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

No

  

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

The Office accepts color drawings when it is impossible to represent what you
want to show in a black and white drawing

  

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

No

  

Close

Current version applicable from 11 Apr 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

