####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
MY - Useful informationMY - International PhaseMY - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationMY - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeMY - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialMY - National PhaseMY - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseMY - The procedure in the national PhaseMY - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide MY - Malaysia  
Intellectual Property Corporation of Malaysia

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **15 September 2023**

(published on 15 September 2023)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
From now on, you will find here a summary of changes to each new version of
the PCT Applicant's Guide, as well as the detailed list of these changes.
Moreover, you can now easily access the historical versions of the Guide.  
  
GENERAL INFO: Contact details  
BIO: Various  
SUMMARY: National fees  
THE PROCEDURE  
ANNEXES: National Fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for MY - Intellectual Property Corporation of Malaysia)).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Intellectual Property Corporation of Malaysia

PA: Patents Act, 1983 (Act 291)

PR: Patents Regulations, 1986

List of currencies used in this document:

CHF (Swiss franc), MYR (Malaysian ringgit)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=MY).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Article 64(5)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Malaysia

Two-letter code:

[MY](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MY&doc-lang=EN)

Malaysia - Intellectual Property Corporation of Malaysia

Name of Office:

Intellectual Property Corporation of Malaysia

Location:

Level 5  
Menara MyIPO  
PJ Sentral, Lot 12  
Persiaran Barat  
Seksyen 52  
46200 Petaling Jaya  
Selangor  
Malaysia

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(603) 7496 8900

E-mail:

pct@myipo.gov.my

Website:

<http://www.myipo.gov.my>

Facsimile:

(603) 7496 8999

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

No, only upon invitation

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

provided that the delivery service is:  
DHL  
Federal Express  
Pos Laju  
UPS

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[MY](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MY&doc-lang=EN)

Malaysia - Intellectual Property Corporation of Malaysia

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Patents Act 1983 (Act 291), Section 23A

Unless written authorization from the Registrar to file abroad has already
been obtained or unless an application for the same invention has been filed
with the Office not less than two months earlier and either no directions
prohibiting or restricting publication have been issued by the Registrar under
Section 30A of the Patents Act 1983 (Act 291) or all such directions have been
revoked

Yes

Filing restrictions apply to:

Applications by residents

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[MY](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MY&doc-lang=EN)

Malaysia - Intellectual Property Corporation of Malaysia

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Certificates for a utility innovation

Patents

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

Section 35B of the Patents Act 1983 (Act 291)

Provisional protection after international publication:

After an international application is made available for public inspection,
the applicant may in writing warn a person who has commercially or
industrially worked the invention that a patent application for the invention
has been filed. The applicant may demand from the person who has commercially
or industrially worked the invention to pay as compensation to the applicant
an amount equivalent to what the applicant would have normally received for
the working of the invention from the time of the warning or, in the absence
of a warning, from the time the international application has been made
available for public inspection to the time of the grant of the patent.
However, the right to demand that compensation shall be exercised only after
the grant of the patent. Refer to Section 34(5) and (6) of the Patents Act
1983 (Act 291).

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished later. If not already complied with
within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office
will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit
of two months from the date of receipt of the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

No

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Malaysia

Language in which international applications may be filed:

English

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Same as above

Language in which the request may be filed:

English

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts XML and PDF files filed using ePCT-Filing.

For the relevant notifications by the Office, refer to Official Notices (PCT
Gazette) dated 25 September 2014, pages 138 _et seq._ and 21 July 2022, pages
187 _et seq._

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies the “unintentional” criterion to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[JP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JP&doc-lang=EN)

Japan - Japan Patent Office (JPO)

,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

1,

[JP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JP&doc-lang=EN)

Japan - Japan Patent Office (JPO)

1,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

Electronic filing 550 MYR

Paper filing 550 MYR

— for one to 10 pages:

Paper filing, plus 5 MYR

— for 11 to 20 pages:

Paper filing, plus 10 MYR

— for 21 to 50 pages:

Paper filing, plus 40 MYR

— from 51 pages:

Paper filing, plus 60 MYR

International filing fee:

Equivalent in MYR of 1,330 CHF

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

Equivalent in MYR of 15 CHF

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

Equivalent in MYR of 200 CHF

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

Equivalent in MYR of 300 CHF

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(AU)  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(JP)  
Annex D(KR)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

— for the first 10 pages:

550 MYR

— for each additional page:

per page, plus 7 MYR

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

150 MYR

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Malaysia  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any patent agent registered before the Office

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Not applicable

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Not applicable

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

Where applicant requests publication earlier than 16 months from the priority
date, not later than that request

— any additional indications:

At the time of filing (in the description)

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

Relevant information on the characteristics of the microorganism.

If the depositor is not the applicant, an authorization letter from the
depositor must accompany the application at the time of filing or within 16
months from the priority date, or, where the applicant requests publication
earlier than 16 months from the priority date, not later than that request

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

English

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Where the applicant furnishes a translation of the international application
only as amended or only as originally filed, the Office will invite the
applicant to furnish the missing translation

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

Yes, a copy is required only if the Office has not received a copy of the
international application from the International Bureau under PCT Article 20.
This may be the case where the applicant expressly requests an earlier start
of the national phase under PCT Article 23(2) or 40(2).

National fees (Electronic or Paper Filing):

Filing fee

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

290 MYR

Claims fee for every additional claim exceeding the first ten claims for
patent application or international application entering national phase

— from the 11th to the 20th claim, per claim

20 MYR

— from the 21st to the 30th claim, per claim

30 MYR

— from the 31st to the 40th claim, per claim

40 MYR

— for each claim in excess of 40

50 MYR

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application 2 3

Statement justifying the applicant’s right to the patent where the applicant
is not the inventor 2 3

Evidence of entitlement to claim priority where the applicant is not the
applicant who filed the earlier application 2 3

Document evidencing a change of name of the applicant if the change occurred
after the international filing date and has not been reflected in a
notification from the International Bureau (Form PCT/IB/306) 3

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in Malaysia

Furnishing, where applicable, of a nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence
listing in electronic form

Who can act as agent?

Any patent agent registered before the Office

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies the “unintentional” criterion to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

MY.01 FORM FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

PR 25A  
The Office has available a special form for entering the national phase (refer
to Annex MY.II). This form should preferably be used.

MY.02 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as originally
filed (refer to National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

MY.03 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex MY.I.

MY.04 APPOINTMENT OF AGENT

PA 86(5),  PR 45B(2)  
If the applicant is not resident in Malaysia, an agent shall be appointed by
submitting to the Registrar a special form (refer to Annex MY.III), signed by
the applicant. Any patent agent registered before the Office may act as agent.

MY.05 INVENTOR

PR 10(2)  
If the applicant is not the inventor, the request must be accompanied by a
statement naming the inventor and justifying the applicant’s right to the
patent (refer to Annex MY.IV)

MY.06 ANNUAL FEES

PA 35(2),  PR 33  
Annual fees are payable for the second and each subsequent year following the
date of grant of the patent. The fees must be paid twelve months before the
date of expiration of the second and each succeeding year during the term of
the patent. Payment of annual fees may still be made within six months from
the due date, subject to the payment of a surcharge. The amounts of the annual
fees are indicated in Annex MY.I.

MY.07 REQUEST FOR EXAMINATION

PA 29A,  PR 27,  PR 27A,  PR 27B,  PR 27C,  PR 27D  
Requests for examination or modified examination must be made on special forms
(refer to Annexes MY.V and MY.VI) provided by the Office, together with the
payment of the prescribed fees within four years from the filing date of the
international application. Requests for modified examination must be
accompanied by a certified copy of the granted patent in English; patents in
Japanese or Korean must be accompanied by a certified translation into
English.

MY.08 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  PA 26A,  PR 46  
The applicant may, at any time before the patent is granted, make amendments
to his application, with the payment of the prescribed fee, provided that the
amendment does not go beyond the disclosure in the initial application.

MY.09 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. Where an international application is considered withdrawn,
the applicant may request reconsideration by the Office.

MY.10 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2),  PCT Rule 49.6,  PCT Rule 82 _bis_  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.

MY.11 REINSTATEMENT OF RIGHTS

Reinstatement of rights may be requested where the applicant unintentionally
failed to observe a time limit set by the Office, which is prejudicial to his
rights. A request for reinstatement must be presented in writing within two
months from the removal of the cause of the failure to observe the time limit
or twelve months from the date of expiration of the applicable time limit,
whichever time limit expires earlier. Within the said two months, the omitted
action must be completed and the fee for reinstatement of rights (refer to
Annex MY.I) must be paid.

MY.12 CONVERSION

PA 17B,  PR 33C  
The applicant may convert an application for a patent into an application for
a certificate for a utility innovation by filing a request to that effect and
paying the prescribed fee within three months from the date of the examination
report. The converted application shall have the filing date of the initial
application.

##  Annexes

Annex MY.I - Fees

Patents (Electronic or paper filing)

Filing fee

290 MYR

Claims fee for every additional claim exceeding the first ten claims for
patent application or international application entering national phase

— from the 11th to the 20th claim, per claim

20 MYR

— from the 21st to the 30th claim, per claim

30 MYR

— from the 31st to the 40th claim, per claim

40 MYR

— for each claim in excess of 40

50 MYR

Request for examination

1,100 MYR

Request for modified examination

640 MYR

Fee for amendment of the application

150 MYR

Reinstatement fee (per month of delay):

800 MYR

Annual fees:

— for the 2nd year

290 MYR

— for the 3rd year

360 MYR

— for the 4th year

440 MYR

— for the 5th year

530 MYR

— for the 6th year

630 MYR

— for the 7th year

730 MYR

— for the 8th year

830 MYR

— for the 9th year

910 MYR

— for the 10th year

990 MYR

— for the 11th year

1,020 MYR

— for the 12th year

1,140 MYR

— for the 13th year

1,280 MYR

— for the 14th year

1,450 MYR

— for the 15th year

1,550 MYR

— for the 16th year

1,900 MYR

— for the 17th year

2,100 MYR

— for the 18th year

2,400 MYR

— for the 19th year

2,700 MYR

— for the 20th year

2,900 MYR

Surcharge for late payment of annual fee

100% of fee for year concerned

Fee for restoration of the right of priority

150 MYR

Fee for conversion

290 MYR

Patents (Paper Filing only)

Handling fee for document:

— from 1 to 10 pages

plus 5 MYR

— from 11 to 20 pages

plus 10 MYR

— from 21 to 50 pages

plus 40 MYR

— for each page in excess of 50

plus 60 MYR

Handling of physical computer storage device, per device

plus 50 MYR

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of the fees has to be effected in Malaysian Ringgit. All payments
must indicate the application number (national, if already known;
international, if the national application number is not yet known), the name
of the applicant and the category of fee being paid

Payment may be effected to the Office by cheque, postal order, bank draft,
local order, credit card or debit card

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex MY.II - Entering national phase for international application (Patents
Form No 2A)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_my.pdf)

[Annex MY.III - Appointment or change of patent agent (Patents Form No
17)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_my.pdf)

[Annex MY.IV - Statement justifying the applicant’s right to a patent or
certificate for utility innovation (Patents Form No
22)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_IV_my.pdf)

[Annex MY.V - Request for substantive examination (Patents Form No
5)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_V_my.pdf)

[Annex MY.VI - Request for modified substantive examination (Patents Form No
5A)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_VI_my.pdf)

[Annex MY.VII - Request for restoration of right of priority (Patents Form No.
1A)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_VII_my.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a b The Office is competent only if the international search is or has
been carried out by that Office.  
2 ^ a b c This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration
has been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  
3 ^ a b c d If not already complied with within the time limit applicable
under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply
with the requirement within a time limit of two months from the date of
receipt of the invitation.  

Change(s) as of 15 September 2023 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference.
Mouse hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental Organization

Location:

Level 5  
Menara MyIPO  
PJ Sentral, Lot 12  
Persiaran Barat  
Seksyen 52  
46200 Petaling Jaya  
Selangor  
Malaysia

  

Telephone:

(603) 7496 8900

  

Facsimile:

(603) 7496 8999

  

  
Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

  

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

Where applicant requests publication earlier than 16 months from the priority
date, not later than that request

  

— any additional indications:

At the time of filing (in the description)

  

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

Relevant information on the characteristics of the microorganism.

If the depositor is not the applicant, an authorization letter from the
depositor must accompany the application at the time of filing or within 16
months from the priority date, or, where the applicant requests publication
earlier than 16 months from the priority date, not later than that request

  

  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

— from the 21st to the 30th claim, per claim

30 MYR

  

— from the 31st to the 40th claim, per claim

40 MYR

  

— for each claim in excess of 40

50 MYR

  

  
The procedure in the national Phase

MY.12 CONVERSION

The applicant may convert an application for a patent into an application for
a certificate for a utility innovation by filing a request to that effect and
paying the prescribed fee within three months from the date of the examination
report. The converted application shall have the filing date of the initial
application.

  

  
Annexes

— from the 21st to the 30th claim, per claim

30 MYR

  

— from the 31st to the 40th claim, per claim

40 MYR

  

— for each claim in excess of 40

50 MYR

  

Fee for amendment of the application

150 MYR

  

Reinstatement fee (per month of delay):

800 MYR

  

— for the 4th year

440 MYR

  

— for the 5th year

530 MYR

  

— for the 6th year

630 MYR

  

— for the 7th year

730 MYR

  

— for the 8th year

830 MYR

  

— for the 9th year

910 MYR

  

— for the 10th year

990 MYR

  

— for the 11th year

1,020 MYR

  

— for the 12th year

1,140 MYR

  

— for the 13th year

1,280 MYR

  

— for the 14th year

1,450 MYR

  

— for the 15th year

1,550 MYR

  

— for the 16th year

1,900 MYR

  

— for the 17th year

2,100 MYR

  

— for the 18th year

2,400 MYR

  

— for the 19th year

2,700 MYR

  

— for the 20th year

2,900 MYR

  

Fee for restoration of the right of priority

150 MYR

  

— from 1 to 10 pages

plus 5 MYR

  

— from 11 to 20 pages

plus 10 MYR

  

— from 21 to 50 pages

plus 40 MYR

  

— for each page in excess of 50

plus 60 MYR

  

Handling of physical computer storage device, per device

plus 50 MYR

  

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of the fees has to be effected in Malaysian Ringgit. All payments
must indicate the application number (national, if already known;
international, if the national application number is not yet known), the name
of the applicant and the category of fee being paid

Payment may be effected to the Office by cheque, postal order, bank draft,
local order, credit card or debit card

  

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex MY.II - Entering national phase for international application (Patents
Form No 2A)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_my.pdf)

[Annex MY.III - Appointment or change of patent agent (Patents Form No
17)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_my.pdf)

[Annex MY.IV - Statement justifying the applicant’s right to a patent or
certificate for utility innovation (Patents Form No
22)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_IV_my.pdf)

[Annex MY.V - Request for substantive examination (Patents Form No
5)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_V_my.pdf)

[Annex MY.VI - Request for modified substantive examination (Patents Form No
5A)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_VI_my.pdf)

[Annex MY.VII - Request for restoration of right of priority (Patents Form No.
1A)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_VII_my.pdf)

  

Close

Current version applicable from 15 Sep 2023 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

