####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
NG - Useful informationNG - International PhaseNG - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationNG - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeNG - National PhaseNG - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseNG - The procedure in the national PhaseNG - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide NG - Nigeria  
Patents and Designs Registry, Commercial Law Department (Nigeria)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **15 September 2023**

(published on 1 December 2023)

  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for NG - Patents and Designs Registry, Commercial Law Department
\(Nigeria\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Patents and Designs Registry, Commercial Law Department (Nigeria)

List of currencies used in this document:

NGN (Naira)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=NG).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Nigeria

Two-letter code:

[NG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=NG&doc-lang=EN)

Nigeria - Patents and Designs Registry, Commercial Law Department (Nigeria)

Name of Office:

Patents and Designs Registry, Commercial Law Department (Nigeria)

Location:

Ministry of Industry  
Trade and Investment  
Block D  
Old Secretariat  
Area 1  
Garki  
Abuja  
Nigeria

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(234) 803 334 88 06  
(234) 803 677 71 83  
(234) 703 165 16 52

E-mail:

iponigeria@yahoo.com  
patentsanddesigns@gmail.com

Website:

None

Facsimile:

None

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

Refer to corresponding Annex C

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[NG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=NG&doc-lang=EN)

Nigeria - Patents and Designs Registry, Commercial Law Department (Nigeria)

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Patents

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If not already complied with within the time limit
applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant
to comply with the requirement within a time limit of two months from the date
of the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

No

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

The Office does not act as receiving Office

This Office has delegated its RO functions to RO/IB. Refer to [Annex
C(IB)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-
lang=EN&doc-type=ANNEX) for more information.

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

English

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, only as amended by the
annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Filing fee

25,000 NGN

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Appointment of an agent

Document evidencing a change of name of the applicant if the change occurred
after the international filing date and has not been reflected in a
notification from the International Bureau (Form PCT/IB/306)

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application 1

Translation of the international application to be furnished in two copies

Who can act as agent?

Any patent attorney or patent agent registered to practice before the Office.

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, please refer to the Office for the applicable criteria and/or any fee
payable for such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

Information not yet available

##  Annexes

Annex NG.I - Fees

Information not yet available

Forms

Please refer to the Office.

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  

Change(s) as of 15 September 2023 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference.
Mouse hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for NG - Patents and Designs Registry, Commercial Law Department
\(Nigeria\))).

  

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Patents and Designs Registry, Commercial Law Department (Nigeria)

  

  
Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental Organization

Name of Office:

Patents and Designs Registry, Commercial Law Department (Nigeria)

  

Close

Current version applicable from 15 Sep 2023 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

