####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
NO - Useful informationNO - International PhaseNO - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationNO - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeNO - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialNO - National PhaseNO - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseNO - The procedure in the national PhaseNO - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide NO - Norway  
Norwegian Industrial Property Office

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **11 April 2024**

(published on 11 April 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
GENERAL INFO: Payment methods  
RO: Electronic filing, Incorporation by reference  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase: National phase,
Restoration of the right of priority, Reinstatement of rights  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Jan 2024, 1 Mar 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for NO - Norwegian Industrial Property Office)).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Norwegian Industrial Property Office

NPL: Patents Act (Norway)

NPR: Norwegian Patent Regulations

List of currencies used in this document:

NOK (Norwegian krone)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=NO).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Article 64(2)(a)(ii), Rule 23 _bis_.2(e)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Norway

Two-letter code:

[NO](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=NO&doc-lang=EN)

Norway - Norwegian Industrial Property Office

Name of Office:

Norwegian Industrial Property Office

Location:

Sandakerveien 64  
0484 Oslo  
Norway

Mailing address:

Postboks 4863 Nydalen  
0422 Oslo  
Norway

Telephone:

(47-2) 238 73 00

E-mail:

post@patentstyret.no

Website:

<http://www.patentstyret.no>

Facsimile:

(47-2) 238 73 01

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by e-mail or facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes, within 14 days from the date of the transmission, if the transmitted
document is the international application or a replacement sheet containing
corrections or amendments of the international application and it was
furnished by facsimile

No, only upon invitation in the case of other documents

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

Yes, the Office is prepared to allow applicants to make international and
national applications available to the WIPO DAS

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[NO](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=NO&doc-lang=EN)

Norway - Norwegian Industrial Property Office

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Patents Act, Section 71 and Act on Inventions of Importance to the Defence of
the Realm (Act No. 8 of 26 June 1953, as last amended on 1 January 2002)

Yes

Filing restrictions apply to:

Inventions made in Norway

Applications by residents

Inventions owned by residents

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: NO

European patent: EP

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents

European:

Patents

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

The payment of fees has to be effected in Norwegian kroner. All payments must
indicate the national application number (however, if that number is not yet
known, the international application number may be used), the name of the
applicant and the category of fee being paid

Payment may be effected by transfer to the following bank:

Renewal fees

Beneficiary’s name  
PATENTSTYRET

Bank name  
DNB ASA

Bank Account No.  
8276 01 00192

Bank Address  
P.O. Box 1600 Sentrum  
NO 0021 OSLO

BIC code  
DNBANOKKXXX

IBAN No.  
NO8282760100192

Other fees

Beneficiary’s name  
PATENTSTYRET

Bank name  
DNB ASA

Bank Account No.  
8276 03 00078

Bank Address  
P.O. Box 1600 Sentrum  
NO 0021 OSLO

BIC code  
DNBANOKKXXX

IBAN No.  
NO4682760300078

Annual fees can be paid online. This service is free of charge and available
on the Office’s digital services website:  
<https://search.patentstyret.no/>

For more information please visit the website:  
<https://www.patentstyret.no/en/about-us/how-we-work/payment-and-renewal>

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

Section 9 of the Patents Act of Norway and

Section 29 of the Regulations

Provisional protection after international publication:

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a national patent:

After international publication, the furnishing of a translation into
Norwegian or English and, if the translation or application was filed in
English a translation of the claims into Norwegian, gives the applicant
provisional protection in the sense that, upon grant of the patent, he may be
entitled to compensation. The protection is limited to what is claimed in both
the application and the patent. As to further conditions for and limitations
in the liability, refer to Sections 33, 58 and 60 of the Patents Act.

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a European patent:

Provided that any national requirements relating to the translation into
Norwegian of the claims of the application have been met, and upon grant of
the patent, provisional protection is given. With provisional protection, the
applicant may be entitled to compensation. Protection is limited to what is
claimed in both the application and the patent (Norwegian Patents Act Section
66g).

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

For national protection

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished later. If not already complied with
within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office
will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit
fixed in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

For a European patent

Refer to [Annex B(EP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=ep&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Norway

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3). If the language
in which the international application is filed is not a language of
publication and no translation is required for the purposes of international
search (PCT Rule 12.3(a)), the applicant will have to furnish a translation of
the application into English (PCT Rule 12.4(a))

English,

Norwegian

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

English,

Norwegian,

or both

Language in which the request may be filed:

English

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 6 April 2023, page 85 _et seq._

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C
of the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
If the receiving Office does not accept international applications in
electronic form in such format, the international application will be
transmitted to the International Bureau as receiving Office (PCT Rule
19.4(a)(ii-_bis_)).

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

Yes

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies the “unintentional” criterion to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[SE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SE&doc-lang=EN)

Sweden - Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV)

,

[XN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=XN&doc-lang=EN)

Nordic Patent Institute - Nordic Patent Institute

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[SE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SE&doc-lang=EN)

Sweden - Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV)

,

[XN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=XN&doc-lang=EN)

Nordic Patent Institute - Nordic Patent Institute

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

800 NOK

International filing fee:

15,630 NOK

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

180 NOK

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

2,350 NOK

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

3,520 NOK

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(SE)  
Annex D(XN)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

300 NOK

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

3,000 NOK

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No

Who can act as agent?

Any natural or legal person

Waiver of power of attorney:

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Refer to the Office

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Refer to the Office

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

Where applicant requests publication earlier than 16 months from the priority
date, not later than that request

— any additional indications:

At the time of filing (as part of the application)

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, all significant information on the
characteristics of the microorganism

Additional information

The applicant may request that, as from the time when the application has been
laid open to public inspection by the Norwegian Industrial Property Office
until a patent has been granted, the application has been finally decided upon
without a patent having been granted, or for 20 years from the date of filing
if the application is refused or withdrawn, the furnishing of a sample shall
only be effected to an expert in the art. The request to this effect shall be
filed by the applicant with the Norwegian Industrial Property Office not later
than at the time when the application is made available to the public under
Section 33(3) of the Norwegian Patents Act. If such a request has been filed
by the applicant, any request made by a third party for the furnishing of a
sample shall indicate the expert to be used. That expert may be a person
entered on a list of recognized experts drawn up by the Norwegian Industrial
Property Office or any person approved by the applicant in the individual
case.

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(3): 31 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes, the Office permits reinstatement of rights under the "unintentional"
criterion.

Fee for reestablishment of rights

3,000 NOK

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Where a request for entry into the national phase has been made within the
time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the translation may be
filed within two months from the expiration of that time limit, provided that
an additional fee for late furnishing of the translation is paid within 30
days from the date of the invitation to pay that fee

For further details, refer to paragraph NO.02

English,

Norwegian

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Where a request for entry into the national phase has been made within the
time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the translation may be
filed within two months from the expiration of that time limit, provided that
an additional fee for late furnishing of the translation is paid within 30
days from the date of the invitation to pay that fee

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, as originally filed or
as amended, at applicant’s option), any text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, as originally filed or as
amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report, at
applicant’s option)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

The applicant should only send a copy of the international application if
he/she has not received Form PCT/IB/308 and the Office has not received a copy
of the international application from the International Bureau under PCT
Article 20. This may be the case where the applicant expressly requests an
earlier start of the national phase under PCT Article 23(2)

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

Yes, however the Office prefers and encourages applicants to submit drawings
without colors. Furthermore, the drawings must display those details which are
necessary to understand the description, cf. the Norwegian Patent Regulation
Section 10.

National fees:

The amount in parentheses is applicable where the applicant is a natural
person or a legal entity with 20 permanent employees or less

Basic fee, including examination fee

Must be paid within 30 days from the date of the invitation to pay that fee

6,050 NOK

(1,100 NOK)

Claim fee for each claim in excess of 10

Must be paid within 30 days from the date of the invitation to pay that fee

330 NOK

Additional fee for late furnishing of translation

Where a request for entry into the national phase has been made within the
time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the translation may be
filed within two months from the expiration of that time limit, provided that
an additional fee for late furnishing of the translation is paid within 30
days from the date of the invitation to pay that fee

950 NOK

Annual fees for the first three years

These fees are due on the last day of the month containing the second
anniversary (24 months) of the international filing date; where PCT Article
39(1) applies, they are payable within two months after performing the acts
for entering the national phase, unless the 24-month time limit has not yet
expired

per year 910 NOK

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has been
made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application

If someone other than the inventor applies for a patent, the application shall
contain a declaration from the applicant stating his right to the invention,
or a deed of transfer

Who can act as agent?

Any natural or legal person

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies the “unintentional” criterion to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

NO.01 FORM FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

The Office has available a special form for entering the national phase (refer
to Annex NO.II). This form should preferably (but need not) be used. This form
is also available on the Office’s website at:
https://<http://www.patentstyret.no/en/services/forms-PDF-format/>

NO.02 LANGUAGE OF PROCEEDINGS

NPR Sec. 5,  NPR Sec. 105  
The description, the claims, any text matter of drawings and the abstract of
the international application must be in Norwegian or English. If the
application has not been published in English, a translation into English or
Norwegian has to be furnished. Other documents and correspondence may be in
Norwegian, Danish, Swedish or English. The languages of opposition and appeal
proceedings are Norwegian, Danish or Swedish.

A patent can also be granted in English. All patent documents may be furnished
in Norwegian or in English. However, a translation of the claims into
Norwegian is required where a patent in English is sought

NO.03 TRANSLATION (LATE FURNISHING OF)

NPL Sec. 31(3)  
If the translation of the international application has not been furnished by
the applicant within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1),
the translation can still be furnished within a further period of two months,
provided that the basic fee and the additional fee for late furnishing of the
translation, indicated in the Summary, have been paid within the prescribed
deadlines (the deadlines being 30 days after the date of the invitations to
pay those fees).

NO.04 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

NO.05 TRANSLATION (IN CASE OF LACK OF UNITY OF INVENTION)

Where a part of the international application was not subjected to an
international search for reason of lack of unity of the invention, a
translation is required only of those parts of the international application
which were subjected to the international search. However, where the applicant
wants to maintain the part which was not searched, a translation of this part
must also be furnished. Also refer to paragraph NO.9.

NO.06 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex NO.I.

NO.07 DECLARATION OF RIGHT AND DEED OF TRANSFER

NPL Sec. 8(4)  
If someone other than the inventor applies for a patent, the application shall
contain a declaration from the applicant stating his right to the invention,
or a deed of transfer. For details, refer to the model of such declaration and
deed (not an official form) in Annexes NO.V and IV. Legalization is not
required.

NO.08 POWER OF ATTORNEY

An agent may be appointed by filing a separate power of attorney or by use of
the special form referred to in paragraph NO.01 (refer to Annex NO.II). A
model of a separate power of attorney is given in Annex NO.III. Where a lawyer
in person is appointed as agent to act on the applicant’s behalf for matters
concerning the national phase, a power of attorney is not mandatory. If a
company is appointed, a power of attorney is necessary, even if the employee
representing the applicant is a lawyer.

NO.09 ADDITIONAL NORWEGIAN SEARCH OR EXAMINATION REPORT (IN CASE OF LACK OF
UNITY OF INVENTION)

PCT Art. 17(3)(b),  PCT Art. 34(3)(c),  NPL Sec. 36,  NPL Sec. 37  
Where a part of the international application was not subject to an
international search or preliminary examination because the international
application did not comply with the requirement of unity of invention and the
applicant did not pay the additional search or preliminary examination fee to
the International Searching or Preliminary Examining Authority, the Office
will decide whether the said finding as regards the application translated
into Norwegian or English was correct. If this is found to be the case, the
Office will invite the applicant to pay an additional fee within two months
after mailing of the notification of this decision. The amount of the said fee
is indicated in Annex NO.I. Where the applicant does not pay the additional
fee, that part of the international application which was not subjected to
international search or preliminary examination will be considered withdrawn.

NO.10 PATENT GRANT FEE

NPL Sec. 20,  NPL Sec. 21  
When the applicant has been notified that a patent may be granted, a patent
grant fee must be paid within two months. The amount of the fee is indicated
in Annex NO.I.

NO.11 ANNUAL FEES

NPL Sec. 8(5),  NPL Sec. 8(6),  NPL Sec. 40,  NPL Sec.41,  NPL Sec. 42  
Annual fees must be paid for each year following the international filing
date. For the due date of the annual fees for the first three years, refer to
the Summary. Payment of the subsequent annual fees must be made before the
expiration of the month containing the anniversary of the international filing
date. Payment can still be made, together with an additional fee for late
payment, before the expiration of the sixth month after the month containing
the anniversary of the international filing date. The amounts of the annual
fees are indicated in Annex NO.I.

NO.12 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  NPL Sec. 13  
The applicant may make the following modifications before the Office, provided
that the scope of the subject matter of the application is not broadened
thereby:

NPL Sec. 34,  NPR Sec. 77  
(i) within 35 months from the priority date: corrections of defects and
voluntary amendments;

NPL Sec. 19,  NPL Sec. 20,  NPL Sec. 21,  NPR Sec. 20,  NPR Sec. 21  
(ii) up to the grant of a patent: amendments or additions to the description
and drawing(s) if they are necessary to comply with general requirements under
PCT Articles 5 and 7; amendments or additions to the claims, which, unless the
Office allows otherwise, must be made by filing a new document comprising all
of the claims in sequence; where additions are made to the claims, the
applicant must at the same time file a statement indicating the reference
basis for these additions.

NO.13 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51,  NPL Sec. 26,  NPL Sec. 27,  NPL Sec. 38,  NPR Sec.
78  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. If, upon review under PCT Article 25, the Office denies an
error or omission on the part of the receiving Office or the International
Bureau, an appeal against this decision may be lodged with the Board of
Appeals, within two months from the date of the decision. An appeal fee must
be paid within 30 days from the date of the invitation to pay that fee (for
the amount, refer to Annex NO.I).

NO.14 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2)  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.

NO.15

NPL Sec. 72,  NPL Sec. 73  
Reestablishment of rights may be requested where the applicant failed to
observe a time limit during the international phase or before the Office,
default of which is prejudicial to his rights, and can prove that the failure
to comply with the time limit was unintentional. A request for reestablishment
must be presented in writing within two months after the removal of the cause
of the failure to perform the action but not later than one year from the
expiration of the time limit which has not been observed. Within the said two
months, the omitted action must be completed. A fee for reestablishment of
rights (refer to Annex NO.I) must be paid and will be invoiced by the Office.

NO.16

NPL Sec. 15  
Resumption of proceedings concerning the application may be requested from the
Office where the applicant has missed a time limit which had been fixed for a
certain action by the Office. Resumption of proceedings may not be requested
where the missed time limit is fixed in the PCT, the PCT Regulations, the
Norwegian Patents Act or the Norwegian Patent Regulations. A request for
resumption of proceedings has the effect that the proceedings for grant will
be resumed, provided that, within four months from the expiration of the
missed time limit, the said request is presented in writing, the resumption
fee (refer to Annex NO.I) is paid and the omitted act has been completed.

NO.17 OPPOSITION

NPL Sec. 24  
Any person may file an opposition to a granted patent. A notice of opposition
shall be filed in writing, state the grounds for the opposition, and reach the
Office within nine months from the date of grant of the patent. There is an
exception for oppositions that assert that the patent is contrary to public
order or morality; these can be filed within three years from the time when
the patent was granted.

##  Annexes

Annex NO.I - Fees

The amount in parentheses is applicable where the applicant is a natural
person or a legal entity with 20 permanent employees or less

National fee, including examination fee

6,050 NOK

(1,100 NOK)

Additional fee for late furnishing of translation or copy

950 NOK

Claim fee for each claim in excess of 10

330 NOK

Additional fee (refer to paragraph NO.09)

6,050 NOK

Patent grant fee:

— basic fee

1,600 NOK

— additional fee for each new patent claim

330 NOK

— additional fee for each commenced sheet in excess of 14

330 NOK

Resumption fee

550 NOK

Second or additional resumption fee

1,950 NOK

Fee for reestablishment of rights

3,000 NOK

Fee for restoration of the right of priority

3,000 NOK

Appeal fee (refer to paragraph NO.13)

5,700 NOK

Annual fees:

— for the 1st year

910 NOK

— for the 2nd year

910 NOK

— for the 3rd year

910 NOK

— for the 4th year

1,760 NOK

— for the 5th year

2,150 NOK

— for the 6th year

2,600 NOK

— for the 7th year

2,860 NOK

— for the 8th year

3,320 NOK

— for the 9th year

3,710 NOK

— for the 10th year

4,160 NOK

— for the 11th year

4,550 NOK

— for the 12th year

5,010 NOK

— for the 13th year

5,460 NOK

— for the 14th year

5,850 NOK

— for the 15th year

6,310 NOK

— for the 16th year

6,760 NOK

— for the 17th year

7,150 NOK

— for the 18th year

7,540 NOK

— for the 19th year

8,060 NOK

— for the 20th year

8,450 NOK

Supplement for late payment

700 NOK

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of fees has to be effected in Norwegian kroner. All payments must
indicate the national application number (however, if that number is not yet
known, the international application number may be used), the name of the
applicant and the category of fee being paid

Payment may be effected by transfer to the following bank:

_Renewal fees_

Beneficiary’s name  
PATENTSTYRET

Bank name  
DNB ASA

Bank Account No.  
8276 01 00192

Bank Address  
P.O. Box 1600 Sentrum  
NO 0021 OSLO

BIC code  
DNBANOKKXXX

IBAN No.  
NO8282760100192

 _Other fees_

Beneficiary’s name  
PATENTSTYRET

Bank name  
DNB ASA

Bank Account No.  
8276 03 00078

Bank Address  
P.O. Box 1600 Sentrum  
NO 0021 OSLO

BIC code  
DNBANOKKXXX

IBAN No.  
NO4682760300078

Annual fees can be paid online. This service is free of charge and available
on the Office’s digital services website:  
<https://search.patentstyret.no/>

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex NO.II - National processing request
form](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_no.pdf)

[Annex NO.III - Power of
attorney](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_no.pdf)

[Annex NO.IV - Deed of
transfer](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_IV_no.pdf)

[Annex NO.V - Declaration of right to the
invention](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_V_no.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Change(s) as of 11 April 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental Organization

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

The payment of fees has to be effected in Norwegian kroner. All payments must
indicate the national application number (however, if that number is not yet
known, the international application number may be used), the name of the
applicant and the category of fee being paid

Payment may be effected by transfer to the following bank:

Renewal fees

Beneficiary’s name  
PATENTSTYRET

Bank name  
DNB ASA

Bank Account No.  
8276 01 00192

Bank Address  
P.O. Box 1600 Sentrum  
NO 0021 OSLO

BIC code  
DNBANOKKXXX

IBAN No.  
NO8282760100192

Other fees

Beneficiary’s name  
PATENTSTYRET

Bank name  
DNB ASA

Bank Account No.  
8276 03 00078

Bank Address  
P.O. Box 1600 Sentrum  
NO 0021 OSLO

BIC code  
DNBANOKKXXX

IBAN No.  
NO4682760300078

Annual fees can be paid online. This service is free of charge and available
on the Office’s digital services website:  
<https://search.patentstyret.no/>

For more information please visit the website:  
<https://www.patentstyret.no/en/about-us/how-we-work/payment-and-renewal>

  

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

  

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

  

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

Yes

  

  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes, the Office permits reinstatement of rights under the "unintentional"
criterion.

Fee for reestablishment of rights

3,000 NOK

  

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

Yes, however the Office prefers and encourages applicants to submit drawings
without colors. Furthermore, the drawings must display those details which are
necessary to understand the description, cf. the Norwegian Patent Regulation
Section 10.

  

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

  

Close

Current version applicable from 11 Apr 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

