####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
NZ - Useful informationNZ - International PhaseNZ - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationNZ - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeNZ - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialNZ - National PhaseNZ - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseNZ - The procedure in the national PhaseNZ - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide NZ - New Zealand  
Intellectual Property Office of New Zealand (IPONZ)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **11 April 2024**

(published on 11 April 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
GENERAL INFO: Payment methods  
RO: Electronic filing, Incorporation by reference  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase: National phase,
Restoration of the right of priority, Reinstatement of rights  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 1 Jan 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for NZ - Intellectual Property Office of New Zealand \(IPONZ\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Intellectual Property Office of New Zealand (IPONZ)

NZPA: New Zealand Patents Act

NZPR: New Zealand Patents Regulations 2018

Sec.: Section of the Patents Act

Reg.: Regulation of the Patents Regulations 2018

List of currencies used in this document:

NZD (New Zealand dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=NZ).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Rule 49.6(f)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

New Zealand

Two-letter code:

[NZ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=NZ&doc-lang=EN)

New Zealand - Intellectual Property Office of New Zealand (IPONZ)

Name of Office:

Intellectual Property Office of New Zealand (IPONZ)

Location:

15 Stout Street  
Wellington 6011  
New Zealand

Mailing address:

P.O. Box 9241  
Marion Square  
Wellington 6141  
New Zealand

Telephone:

International calls  
(64-3) 962 26 07  
National free calls  
0508 447 669  
Free calls from Australia  
1800 796 338

E-mail:

General enquiries  
info@iponz.govt.nz  
Enquiries concerning ePCT  
epct@iponz.govt.nz

Website:

<http://www.iponz.govt.nz>

Facsimile:

None

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes,

via the Office’s online case management facility

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

Please refer to the Office

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Please refer to the Office

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

Yes

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

Yes, the Office is prepared to allow applicants to make national applications
available to the WIPO DAS

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[NZ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=NZ&doc-lang=EN)

New Zealand - Intellectual Property Office of New Zealand (IPONZ)

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[NZ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=NZ&doc-lang=EN)

New Zealand - Intellectual Property Office of New Zealand (IPONZ)

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Patents

Patents of addition

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

As DO(EO): fees must be paid by electronic means once an application has
entered the national phase. Goods and Services Tax is payable by New Zealand
residents.

As RO: The Office requires direct credit payments for PCT international
applications. After a PCT application has been filed, the applicant receives
from the Office the summary of the fees due and the MBIE PCT Trust Account
details for payment.

Refer to: Patent fees, Intellectual Property Office of New Zealand
(<https://www.iponz.govt.nz/>) for more information.

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

Section 81 of the New Zealand Patents Act 2013 provides that after the
complete specification has become open to public inspection and before the
patent is granted the nominated person (as defined in section 5) is taken to
have generally the same privileges and rights as if the patent had been
granted on the day that the specification became open to public inspection
except the nominated person cannot bring a proceeding until after the patent
has been granted.

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished later. If not already complied with
within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office
will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit
fixed in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

New Zealand

Language in which international applications may be filed:

English

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Same as above

Language in which the request may be filed:

English

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts XML and PDF files filed using ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notifications by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 25 September 2014, pages 140 _et seq._ and 28 July 2022,
page 198.

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

Yes, the Office accepts color or greyscale drawings or photographs on an
informal basis and transmits them to the International Bureau. However, If the
provided drawings do not render to black and white satisfactorily, an
objection will be raised via the PCT/RO/106 form under (PCT Rule 11.13).

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies both the “unintentional” and the “due care” criteria
to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

1,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

1

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

207 NZD

Inclusive of Goods and Services Tax

International filing fee:

2,436 NZD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

27 NZD

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

366 NZD

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

550 NZD

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(AU)  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(KR)  
Annex D(US)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

None

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

None

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No

Who can act as agent?

Any person registered to practice before the Office as a patent attorney

Information about registered patent attorneys is available from the Trans-
Tasman IP Attorneys Board at:  
<https://www.ttipattorney.gov.au/>

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Where there is a change in representation, that is where an applicant is
represented by a new agent or representative

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Where there is a change in representation, that is where an applicant is
represented by a new agent or representative

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

None

— any additional indications:

At the time of filing (as part of the specification)

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, relevant information on the
characteristics of the microorganism

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(3): 31 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

No

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

English

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims, any text matter of drawings (if any
of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and as amended)

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings (if
any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and as amended)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

Applicant should only provide a copy of the international application if
he/she has not received Form PCT/IB/308 and the Office has not received a copy
of the international application from the International Bureau under PCT
Article 20. This may be the case where the applicant expressly requests an
earlier start of the national phase under PCT Article 23(2).

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

Yes, color or greyscale drawings or photographs are permitted under NZ
national law, without any specific conditions, limitations, or requirements

National fees:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Patents or patents of addition

Filing fee

250 NZD

plus Goods and Services Tax for New Zealand residents

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Name and address of each inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application 2

Address for service in New Zealand or Australia (no representation by an agent
is required)

An electronic communication address must be provided by all persons
communicating with the Office

Verification of translation of international application

Who can act as agent?

Any person registered to practice before the Office as a patent attorney

Information about registered patent attorneys is available from the Trans-
Tasman IP Attorneys Board at: <https://www.ttipattorney.gov.au/>

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the office applies both the “unintentional” and the “due care” criteria
to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

NZ.01 FORM FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

It is strongly recommended that the national phase application be filed
through the Office’s online case management facility, which operates in real
time so that the applicant receives immediate confirmation of the filing date.
The applicant is required to provide an electronic communication address for
all further communications between the Office and the applicant, which must
take also place via the case management facility.

NZ.02 TRANSLATION

PCT Rule 17.2(a), PCT Rule 51 _bis_.1(d), PCT Rule 91, NZPA Sec. 50, NZPA Sec.
51(1)(d), NZPA Sec. 51(1)(e), NZPR 63(2), NZPR Reg. 65, NZPR Reg. 70  
A verified translation into English of any document forming part of the
international application must be furnished to the Office within three months
of the commencement date of the national phase, which time can be extended by
up to two months. Documents include the original specification, Article 19 and
Article 34 amendments and Rule 91 rectifications; these translations must be
filed as separate documents. A verified English translation of the priority
document is not required, unless requested by the Office.

NZ.03 TRANSLATION (VERIFICATION)

The required verified translation is a translation into English of an
accompanying document that has a certificate of verification attached. The
certificate of verification is a statement that a document to which the
statement refers is a true and complete translation of the accompanying
document to the best of the knowledge of the person who signs the statement
and must be dated and signed.

The (or each) certificate must contain the NZ patent application number or the
PCT international application number and should be included in a single
document with the translation(s) referred to, or if the certificate is not so
included it must be filed on the same day and evidently correspond to its
translated document as part of the same filing transaction.

The Office will invite the applicant, during an on line request to enter
national phase, to file a verified translation in the prescribed format and
time. Failure to do so may result in the application being deemed void, and
the applicant may then request restoration.

NZ.04 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

NZ.05 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex NZ.I.

NZ.06 REQUEST FOR EXAMINATION

The Office examines national patent applications only after a request for
examination has been received and the examination fee has been paid.
Examination must be requested within five years of the international filing
date, or where the Office issues a direction to the applicant to request
examination, within two months of the date of the direction.

The amount of the fee for requesting examination is set out in Annex NZ.I. An
application must be accepted within 12 months after the date of issuance of
the first examination report.

Before an application is accepted, a notice of entitlement of the applicant to
the grant of the patent must be filed. The notice must be filed before
acceptance. This requirement may be met if the applicant files a notice
indicating the relevant declarations in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17(ii).

NZ.07 ADDRESS FOR SERVICE

NZPR Reg 3,  NZPR Reg 14,  NZPR Reg 34  
An applicant, irrespective of whether or not he/she is a national of or a
resident in New Zealand, is not required to be represented by an agent, but is
required to have an address for service (of notices and other communications)
in New Zealand or Australia. Any applicant may be represented by a patent
attorney authorised to practice before the Office and the address for service
should normally be that of a registered patent attorney.

Information about registered patent attorneys is available from the Trans-
Tasman IP Attorney Board at:  
<https://www.ttipattorney.gov.au/>

NZ.08

PCT Art. 4(4)  
he name and address of each inventor must be provided at the time of
requesting entry into the national phase or within a time subsequently
prescribed by the Office.

NZ.09 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  NZPA Sec. 33(5),  NZPA Sec. 40,  NZPA Sec. 201,
NZPA Sec. 202,  NZPR Reg. 58,  NZPR Reg. 136,  NZPR Reg.137,  NZPR Reg. 138,
NZPR Reg. 139,  NZPR Reg. 140  
The applicant may make the following modifications to his application before
the Office:

(i) prior to acceptance:

— corrections of clerical errors or omissions in the patents register,
patents, patent applications, or any documents filed in connection with a
patent application or proceedings before the Commissioner in connection with a
patent or patent application. This does not apply to errors or omissions in a
patent specification;

— amendments that do not result in the broadening of the description and/or
claims by the incorporation of new matter (beyond the disclosure of the
international application as filed) otherwise the Commissioner may direct
post-dating of the application and specification;

(ii) after acceptance:

— corrections of clerical errors or omissions per (i) above;

NZPA Sec 83, NZPA Sec 84, NZPA Sec 85, NZPA Sec 86, NZPA Sec 87, NZPA Sec 88,,
NZPR Reg 87, NZPR Reg 88, NZPR Reg 89  
— no amendment is allowed, except for the purpose of correcting an obvious
mistake, the effect of which would be that the application as amended would
claim or describe matter not disclosed in substance in the application before
amendment, or that any amended claim would not fall wholly within the scope of
a claim of the application before amendment.

NZ.10 PATENT OF ADDITION

PCT Art. 4(3),  PCT Art. 43,  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1(c),  PCT Rule 76.5,  NZPA
Sec. 106,  NZPA Sec. 107,  NZPA Sec. 108,  NZPA Sec. 109,  NZPA Sec. 110,
NZPA Sec. 111,  NZPR Reg. 100  
A request by the applicant to have a patent granted as a patent of addition
may be made at any time from the date of filing of the national phase
application. The applicant should also indicate the number of the patent or
patent application to which he seeks a patent of addition.

NZ.11 MAINTENANCE AND RENEWAL FEES

NZPA Sec. 20,  NZPA Sec. 21,  NZPA Sec. 35,  NZPR Reg. 8,  NZPR Reg. 9,  NZPR
Reg. 10  
Maintenance fees are payable annually on all applications from the 4th
anniversary of the international filing date. After grant, renewal fees are
payable annually and are due on the corresponding anniversary of the
international filing date. An annual maintenance fee is due on the 4th
anniversary of the international filing date of applications following entry
into national phase. Following grant, an annual renewal fee is payable on the
anniversary date of the international filing date. Where a maintenance fee has
been paid, and a patent is granted before the next annual payment is due, then
the next annual payment will be the renewal fee. Maintenance and renewal fees
may be paid in the period of three months preceding the anniversary date, and
up to six months late (with an increased maintenance fee or a penalty fee for
renewal fees). The amounts of the maintenance and renewal fees are indicated
in Annex NZ.I.

NZ.12 EXCESS CLAIMS FEE

NZPR Reg. 11A  
An excess claims fee for the examination of the application and specification
will be payable after the application has been accepted if, at any time
between the filing of the request for examination and the acceptance of the
specification, the specification contains 30 or more claims concurrently. The
applicant will be informed of the fee amount, as indicated in Annex NZ.I,
after the specification has been accepted, and the grant of the patent will be
postponed until the excess claims fee has been paid. The excess claims fee
will be waived or refunded at the applicant’s request if the application is
withdrawn or abandoned, or if the grant of the patent is refused. If an
application is abandoned then restored, the excess claims fee remains payable.

NZ.13 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51,  NZPA Sec. 208  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. If, upon review under PCT Article 25, the Office denies an
error or omission on the part of the receiving Office or the International
Bureau, the applicant may request a hearing before the Commissioner.

NZ.14 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2),  NZPA Sec. 231,  NZPA Sec. 232,  NZPR Reg.
146,  NZPR Reg. 147,  NZPR Reg. 148  
Once the application has entered the national phase, the Commissioner may, in
his/her discretion, extend certain time limits for doing acts or taking
proceedings under the regulations, upon request. Such extension may be granted
although the time has expired for doing the act or taking the proceedings. A
request for such an extension can be filed through the online system.

NZ.15 CHANGE OF NAME OR SUBSTITUTION OF APPLICANT

NZPA Sec. 129,  NZPR Reg. 122  
Where the applicant for entry into national phase in New Zealand differs from
the applicant for the corresponding international application and this change
of name or substitution has not been recorded at the International Bureau
under Rule 92 _bis_ , the New Zealand applicant should apply to the Office to
record the change of name or substitution of applicant using the Office online
system.

##  Annexes

Annex NZ.I - Fees

These amounts are periodically updated and are available from the Office at:  
<https://www.iponz.govt.nz/about-ip/patents/fees/>

Standard patent applications

Filing fee

250 NZD

Maintenance (payable only at pre-grant):

— on the 4th and each subsequent anniversary of the filing date of the
complete specification if the fee is paid during the period prescribed by
regulation 9(1)(a)

200 NZD

— on the 4th and each subsequent anniversary of the filing date of the
complete specification if the fee is paid during the further period prescribed
by regulation 9(1)(b)

300 NZD

Renewal fees (payable only at post-grant):

— on the 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th and 9th anniversary of the filing date of the
complete specification if the fee is paid during the period prescribed by
regulation 10

200 NZD

— on the 10th, 11th, 12th, 13th and 14th anniversary of the filing date of the
complete specification if the fee is paid during the period prescribed by
regulation 10

450 NZD

— on the 15th, 16th, 17th, 18th, and 19th anniversary of the filing date of
the complete specification if the fee is paid during the period prescribed by
regulation 10

1,000 NZD

Penalty payable for a request to extend the period for payment of a renewal
fee during the penalty period prescribed by section 21(1)

100 NZD

Fee for voluntary amendment of a complete specification:

— before acceptance

150 NZD

— after acceptance

500 NZD

Request for examination fee

750 NZD

Excess claims fee for examination, for each 5th claim in excess of 25

120 NZD

Request for restoration of a patent or patent application (including ‘late
entry’ into the national phase)

600 NZD

Request for a hearing

850 NZD

Patents of addition

All fees as for standard patent applications, with the exception that renewal
fees are not payable

How can payment of fees be effected?

For more information see:  
<https://www.iponz.govt.nz/about-ip/patents/>

Fees must be paid by electronic means once an application has entered the
national phase. Goods and Services Tax is payable by New Zealand residents.

Forms

Please refer to the Office.

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a b The Office is competent only if the international search is or has
been carried out by that Office.  
2 ^ a This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  

Change(s) as of 11 April 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental Organization

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

As DO(EO): fees must be paid by electronic means once an application has
entered the national phase. Goods and Services Tax is payable by New Zealand
residents.

As RO: The Office requires direct credit payments for PCT international
applications. After a PCT application has been filed, the applicant receives
from the Office the summary of the fees due and the MBIE PCT Trust Account
details for payment.

Refer to: Patent fees, Intellectual Property Office of New Zealand
(<https://www.iponz.govt.nz/>) for more information.

  

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

  

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

  

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

Yes, the Office accepts color or greyscale drawings or photographs on an
informal basis and transmits them to the International Bureau. However, If the
provided drawings do not render to black and white satisfactorily, an
objection will be raised via the PCT/RO/106 form under (PCT Rule 11.13).

  

  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

No

  

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

Yes, color or greyscale drawings or photographs are permitted under NZ
national law, without any specific conditions, limitations, or requirements

  

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

  

Close

Current version applicable from 11 Apr 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

