####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * ISA
  * IPEA
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
PH - Useful informationPH - International PhasePH - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationPH - Annex C - Receiving
OfficePH - Annex D - International Searching AuthorityPH - Annex E -
International Preliminary Examining AuthorityPH - Annex L - Deposits of
Microorganisms and Other Biological MaterialPH - National PhasePH - Summary of
requirements for entry into the national phasePH - The procedure in the
national PhasePH - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide PH - Philippines  
Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **1 March 2024**

(published on 1 February 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
RO: RO fees  
ISA: ISA fees  
IPEA: IPEA fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 1 Jan 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for PH - Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines)).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines

IP Code: Republic Act No 8293 otherwise known as the Intellectual Property
Code of the Philippines

PRo-PCT: Philippine Rules on PCT Applications

Regulations: The Revised Implementing Rules and Regulations for Patents,
Utility Models and Industrial Designs (as in force from 16 March 2012)

IPO Fee Structure: Rules and Regulations Establishing the Fee Structure of the
IPO

List of currencies used in this document:

CHF (Swiss franc), EUR (Euro), PHP (Philippine peso), USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=PH).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Rule 26 _bis_.3(j), Rule 49.6(f), Rule 49 _ter_.1(g), Rule 49 _ter_.2(h)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Philippines

Two-letter code:

[PH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PH&doc-lang=EN)

Philippines - Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines

Name of Office:

Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines

Location:

G/F, 2/F, 14/F, 16/F Intellectual Property Center  
#28 Upper McKinley Road  
McKinley Hill Town Center  
Fort Bonifacio  
Taguig City  
1634 Philippines

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(632) 7238 63 00

E-mail:

pct@ipophil.gov.ph  
mail@ipophil.gov.ph

Website:

<http://www.ipophil.gov.ph>

Facsimile:

(632) 8856 92 93

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[PH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PH&doc-lang=EN)

Philippines - Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[PH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PH&doc-lang=EN)

Philippines - Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Patents

Utility models (a utility model may be sought instead of a patent)

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

In accordance with PCT Article 29(1), as far as the protection of any rights
of the applicant under Section 46 of the IP Code is concerned, the
international publication in English of an international application shall
have the same effect as a publication in the IPO Gazette (under Section 44 of
the IP Code and its implementing rules and regulations), provided that notice
of the international publication and copy of the international application
have been transmitted, pursuant to Section 46.2 of the IP Code, by the
applicant to the actual unauthorized user of the invention claimed in the
international application.

If the language in which the international publication has been effected is a
language other than English, the protection of any rights of the applicant
under Section 46 of the IP Code shall be applicable only from such time as a
translation into English has been published in the IPO Gazette (under Section
44 of the IP Code and its implementing rules and regulations), and such
translation into English has been transmitted, pursuant to Section 46.2 of the
IP Code, by the applicant to the actual unauthorized user of the invention
claimed in the international application.

Where the international publication has been effected, on the request of the
applicant, before the expiration of 18 months from the priority date, the
rights provided for under Section 46 of the IP Code shall be applicable only
from the expiration of 18 months from the priority date subject to the
conditions mentioned in the preceding paragraphs.

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished later. If not already complied with
within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office
will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit
fixed in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Philippines

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3).

English,

Filipino

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

English or Filipino; or both

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notifications by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 7 January 2016, pages 2 _et seq._ and 11 May 2023, pages
110 _et seq._

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C
of the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

No

Competent International Searching Authority:

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[JP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JP&doc-lang=EN)

Japan - Japan Patent Office (JPO)

,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[PH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PH&doc-lang=EN)

Philippines - Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

1,

[JP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JP&doc-lang=EN)

Japan - Japan Patent Office (JPO)

1,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[PH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PH&doc-lang=EN)

Philippines - Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

1

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

4,200 PHP

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

235 USD

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

352 USD

Search fee:

Fee payable in USD

Refer to  
Annex D(AU)  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(JP)  
Annex D(KR)  
Annex D(PH)  
Annex D(US)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

2,700 PHP

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in the Philippines  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any patent agent or representative residing in the Philippines upon whom
notices or processes for judicial or administrative procedure may be served

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Where the Office receives a notice or communication from a sub-agent appointed
by the agent; or from a new agent appointed by the common representative; or
the Office receives a notice or communication from an agent or common
representative who is appointed by the applicant in replacement of the agent
or common representative previously appointed by the applicant; or the Office
receives a notice or communication from an agent or a common representative
submitting the names of additional applicants not named in the request form.

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Where the Office receives a notice or communication from a sub-agent appointed
by the agent; or from a new agent appointed by the common representative; or
the Office receives a notice or communication from an agent or common
representative who is appointed by the applicant in replacement of the agent
or common representative previously appointed by the applicant; or the Office
receives a notice or communication from an agent or a common representative
submitting the names of additional applicants not named in the request form.

##  Annex D - International Searching Authority

International Searching Authority competent for the following Receiving
Offices:

[PH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PH&doc-lang=EN)

Philippines - Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines

,

[WS](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=WS&doc-lang=EN)

Samoa - Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Labour (MCIL) (Samoa)

Search fee (PCT Rule 16):

This fee is payable to the receiving Office in the currency or one of the
currencies accepted by it

511 CHF

570 EUR

600 USD

The amounts below apply where the applicant is a small entity which refers to
any natural or juridical person whose assets are worth not more than one
hundred million pesos (P100M); or any entity, agency, office, bureau or unit
of the Philippine government including government-owned or controlled
corporations, state universities and colleges and government-owned or
government-run schools

170 CHF

190 EUR

200 USD

Additional search fee (PCT Rule 40.2):

600 USD

The amounts below apply where the applicant is a small entity which refers to
any natural or juridical person whose assets are worth not more than one
hundred million pesos (P100M); or any entity, agency, office, bureau or unit
of the Philippine government including government-owned or controlled
corporations, state universities and colleges and government-owned or
government-run schools

200 USD

This fee is payable to the International Searching Authority and only in
particular circumstances.

Fee for copies of documents cited in the international search report (PCT Rule
44.3):

per document 20 USD

The amounts below apply where the applicant is a small entity which refers to
any natural or juridical person whose assets are worth not more than one
hundred million pesos (P100M); or any entity, agency, office, bureau or unit
of the Philippine government including government-owned or controlled
corporations, state universities and colleges and government-owned or
government-run schools

per document 10 USD

How to obtain copies:

The Authority provides applicants with a copy of cited documents in electronic
form, free of charge, when transmitting the international search report by
e-mail. No copies are provided when the international search report is sent by
mail

Copies are available upon request, free of charge, for designated (elected)
Offices, by e-mail at:  
pct@ipophil.gov.ph

Applicants will be charged the fee mentioned below

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.1 _ter_):

per document 20 USD

The amounts below apply where the applicant is a small entity which refers to
any natural or juridical person whose assets are worth not more than one
hundred million pesos (P100M); or any entity, agency, office, bureau or unit
of the Philippine government including government-owned or controlled
corporations, state universities and colleges and government-owned or
government-run schools

per document 10 USD

Protest fee (PCT Rule 40.2(e)):

400 USD

The amounts below apply where the applicant is a small entity which refers to
any natural or juridical person whose assets are worth not more than one
hundred million pesos (P100M); or any entity, agency, office, bureau or unit
of the Philippine government including government-owned or controlled
corporations, state universities and colleges and government-owned or
government-run schools

200 USD

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rule 13 _ter_.1(c)):

200 USD

The amounts below apply where the applicant is a small entity which refers to
any natural or juridical person whose assets are worth not more than one
hundred million pesos (P100M); or any entity, agency, office, bureau or unit
of the Philippine government including government-owned or controlled
corporations, state universities and colleges and government-owned or
government-run schools

100 USD

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the search fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded

Where the international application is withdrawn or is considered withdrawn,
under PCT Article 14(1), (3) or (4), before the start of the international
search:  
refund of 100%

Where the Authority benefits from an earlier search already made by the
Authority, depending on the extent to which the Authority benefits from that
earlier search:  
refund of 50%

Languages accepted for international search:

English

Does the Authority accept informal comments on earlier search results where an
international application claims priority from an earlier application already
searched by this Authority?

No

Types of physical media accepted for the furnishing of nucleotide and/or amino
acid sequence listings :

CD-R,

DVD-R

Subject matter that will not be searched:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 39.1, with the
exception of any subject matter searched under the patent grant procedure in
accordance with the provisions of national patent law of the Philippines

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Where the Office receives a notice or communication from a sub-agent appointed
by the agent; or from a new agent appointed by the common representative; or
the Office receives a notice or communication from an agent or common
representative who is appointed by the applicant in replacement of the agent
or common representative previously appointed by the applicant; or the Office
receives a notice or communication from an agent or a common representative
submitting the names of additional applicants not named in the request form.

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Where the Office receives a notice or communication from a sub-agent appointed
by the agent; or from a new agent appointed by the common representative; or
the Office receives a notice or communication from an agent or common
representative who is appointed by the applicant in replacement of the agent
or common representative previously appointed by the applicant; or the Office
receives a notice or communication from an agent or a common representative
submitting the names of additional applicants not named in the request form.

##  Annex E - International Preliminary Examining Authority

International Preliminary Examining Authority competent for the following
Receiving Offices:

[PH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PH&doc-lang=EN)

Philippines - Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines

,

[WS](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=WS&doc-lang=EN)

Samoa - Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Labour (MCIL) (Samoa)

Preliminary examination fee (PCT Rule 58):

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority

300 USD

The amount below applies where the applicant is a small entity which refers to
any natural or juridical person whose assets are worth not more than one
hundred million pesos (P100M); or any entity, agency, office, bureau or unit
of the Philippine government including government-owned or controlled
corporations, state universities and colleges and government-owned or
government-run schools

150 USD

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority.

Additional preliminary examination fee (PCT Rule 68.3):

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority and
only in particular circumstances.

400 USD

The amount below applies where the applicant is a small entity which refers to
any natural or juridical person whose assets are worth not more than one
hundred million pesos (P100M); or any entity, agency, office, bureau or unit
of the Philippine government including government-owned or controlled
corporations, state universities and colleges and government-owned or
government-run schools

200 USD

Handling fee (PCT Rule 57.1):

235 USD

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority. It
is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee for copies of documents cited in the international preliminary examination
report (PCT Rule 71.2):

per document 20 USD

The amount below applies where the applicant is a small entity which refers to
any natural or juridical person whose assets are worth not more than one
hundred million pesos (P100M); or any entity, agency, office, bureau or unit
of the Philippine government including government-owned or controlled
corporations, state universities and colleges and government-owned or
government-run schools

per document 10 USD

How to obtain copies:

The Authority provides applicants with a copy of cited documents in electronic
form, free of charge, when transmitting the international preliminary
examination report by e-mail. No copies are provided when the international
preliminary examination report is sent by mail

Copies are available, free of charge, for elected Offices, upon request by
e-mail at:  
pct@ipophil.gov.ph

Applicants will be charged the fee mentioned above

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.2):

per document 20 USD

The amount below applies where the applicant is a small entity which refers to
any natural or juridical person whose assets are worth not more than one
hundred million pesos (P100M); or any entity, agency, office, bureau or unit
of the Philippine government including government-owned or controlled
corporations, state universities and colleges and government-owned or
government-run schools

per document 10 USD

Protest fee (PCT Rule 68.3(e)):

400 USD

The amount below applies where the applicant is a small entity which refers to
any natural or juridical person whose assets are worth not more than one
hundred million pesos (P100M); or any entity, agency, office, bureau or unit
of the Philippine government including government-owned or controlled
corporations, state universities and colleges and government-owned or
government-run schools

200 USD

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rule 13 _ter_.2):

200 USD

The amount below applies where the applicant is a small entity which refers to
any natural or juridical person whose assets are worth not more than one
hundred million pesos (P100M); or any entity, agency, office, bureau or unit
of the Philippine government including government-owned or controlled
corporations, state universities and colleges and government-owned or
government-run schools

100 USD

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the preliminary examination fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded

In the cases provided for under PCT Rule 58.3:  
refund of 100%

If the international application or the demand is withdrawn before the start
of the international preliminary examination:  
refund of 100%

Languages accepted for international preliminary examination:

English

Subject matter that will not be examined:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 67.1, with the
exception of any subject matter examined under the patent grant procedure in
accordance with the provisions of national patent law of the Philippines

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Where the Office receives a notice or communication from a sub-agent appointed
by the agent; or from a new agent appointed by the common representative; or
the Office receives a notice or communication from an agent or common
representative who is appointed by the applicant in replacement of the agent
or common representative previously appointed by the applicant; or the Office
receives a notice or communication from an agent or a common representative
submitting the names of additional applicants not named in the request form

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Where the Office receives a notice or communication from a sub-agent appointed
by the agent; or from a new agent appointed by the common representative; or
the Office receives a notice or communication from an agent or common
representative who is appointed by the applicant in replacement of the agent
or common representative previously appointed by the applicant; or the Office
receives a notice or communication from an agent or a common representative
submitting the names of additional applicants not named in the request form

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

At the time of filing (as part of the application)

— any additional indications:

At the time of filing (as part of the application)

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, relevant information on the
characteristics of the microorganism

Additional information

Deposits may be made for the purposes of patent procedure before the
Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines with any depositary
institution having acquired the status of international depositary authority
under the Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of
Microorganisms for the Purposes of Patent Procedure.

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

This time limit can be extended by one month provided the applicant pays an
extension fee for late entry into the national phase, equal to 50% of the
prescribed filing fee

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or
39(1)

English

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Where the applicant furnishes only a translation of the international
application as amended, the Office will invite the applicant to furnish the
missing translation of the international application as originally filed. If
the translation of the amended part is missing, the Office will not invite the
applicant to furnish the missing translation and the amendments will be
disregarded

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article 19 ), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No, where the international application was filed in a language other than
English

Yes, where it was filed in English and the applicant has not received Form
PCT/IB/308

National fees:

Must be paid at the time of entry into the national phase or within one month
from the time of entry into the national phase. Where the national phase is
entered after 30 months but not later than 31 months from the priority date, a
surcharge will have to be paid

The amount in parentheses is applicable in cases of filing by a “small
entity”. A small entity is any natural or legal person whose assets are worth
100 million PHP or less; or any entity, agency, office, bureau or unit of the
Philippine government including government-owned or controlled corporations,
state universities and colleges and government-owned or government-run
schools. At the time of payment, any natural or legal person is presumed to be
a big entity unless a written statement to the contrary is submitted by such
natural person or the duly authorized representative of such legal person

Patents

Filing fee

4,320 PHP

(2,000 PHP)

Utility models

Filing fee

3,600 PHP

(1,720 PHP)

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

No filing fee is payable if priority of an earlier national application is
claimed.

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not a resident of the Philippines
2

Copy or translation of the international application to be furnished in
duplicate 3

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application, 3 4

Instrument of assignment of the international application if the applicant is
not the inventor 3 4

Instrument of assignment of the priority application where the applicants are
not identical 3 4

Document evidencing a change of name or person of the applicant if the change
occurred after the international filing date and has not been reflected in the
PCT pamphlet or in a notification from the International Bureau (Form
PCT/IB/306) 2

Furnishing, where applicable, of a nucleotide and/or amino sequence listing in
electronic form 3

Who can act as agent?

Any patent agent or representative residing in the Philippines upon whom
notices and processes for judicial or administrative procedure may be served

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

No

##  The procedure in the national Phase

PH.01 FORMS FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

The Office recommends the use of an electronic form for entering the national
phase, which is available on the Office’s web site at:
<https://onlineservices.ipophil.gov.ph/eInventionFile/>. This form is used by
the Office to identify the application as a national phase entry and to assign
an appropriate application number.

PH.02 CORRESPONDENCE

Regulations Final Provisions Section 1  
All business with the Office or the Bureau of Patents shall be performed in
writing. Actions will be based exclusively on the written record. No attention
will be paid to any alleged oral promise, stipulation, or understanding. All
letters and other communications must be addressed to the Director of Patents;
if addressed to any other officer, they will ordinarily be returned. In every
case, a separate letter shall be written in relation to each distinct subject
of inquiry. When a letter concerns an application it shall state the name of
the applicant, the title of the invention, the application number and the
filing date of the application. When the letter concerns a granted patent, it
shall state the name of the patentee, the title of the invention, the patent
number and date of issuance.

PH.03 FORM OF SIGNATURES

Regulations Rule 505  
Where a signature is required, the Office may accept a hand-written signature;
or the use of other forms of signature, such as a printed or stamped
signature, or the use of a seal, or thumb marks, instead of a hand-written
signature, provided that where a seal or a thumb mark is used, it should be
accompanied by an indication in letters of the name of the signatory. No
attestation, notarization, legalization or other certification of any
signature or other means of self-identification referred to in the preceding
sentence will be required, except where the signature concerns the surrender
of a letters patent.

PH.04 REPRESENTATION

IP Code Section 33,  Regulations Rule 421,  PRo-PCT Rule 7(a),  PRo-PCT Rule
7(c)  
An applicant who is not a resident of the Philippines shall appoint and
maintain an agent or representative residing in the Philippines upon whom
notices or processes for judicial or administrative procedure may be served
relating to the international application filed with the Office. An applicant
who is a resident of the Philippines may likewise appoint and maintain an
agent or representative residing in the Philippines for the same purpose.

PH.05 EARLIER NATIONAL APPLICATIONS FROM WHICH PRIORITY IS CLAIMED

PRo-PCT Rule 36  
Where the international application claims the priority of an earlier
Philippine national application, the applicant should elect which one of the
two applications shall be further prosecuted. The applicant may indicate his
choice in the form for entering the national phase. Otherwise, the Office will
invite the applicant, within one month from the date of entry into the
national phase of the international application, to elect only one application
for further prosecution within two months from the date of the invitation, or
within a longer period which the Office may allow, but not to exceed six
months from the date of entry into the national phase.

PH.06 SUBMISSION OF PRIORITY DOCUMENT

PRo-PCT Rule 38.2  
If the priority document has not been submitted to the International Bureau in
accordance with PCT Rule 17.1(a)-b-(b-_bis_), the applicant shall submit to
the Office a certification from the national Office concerned stating the
following data regarding the application the priority of which is claimed:
name of the applicant, filing date, application number and title of the
application. The certification, and its English translation if not in English,
together with the payment of the fee for extension of time to submit the
priority document, and the surcharge for late payment provided for in the IPO
Fee Structure, shall be submitted within six months from the date of entry
into the national phase without need of notice. The certification, and its
English translation if not in English, do not require legalization. Failure of
the applicant to comply with PRo-PCT Rule 38.2 shall be grounds to disregard
the priority claim.

PH.07 STATEMENT CONCERNING CORRESPONDING APPLICATIONS IN OTHER COUNTRIES

IP Code Section 39,  Regulations Rule 612,  Regulations Rule 612.1,
Regulations Rule 612.2  
The applicant shall, at the request of the (Director of the Bureau of Patents)
Office, furnish the date and number of any application for a patent filed by
him abroad relating to the same or essentially the same invention as that
claimed in the application filed with the Office and other documents relating
to the foreign application. The application is considered withdrawn if the
applicant fails to comply with the requirement to furnish information
concerning the corresponding foreign application, within the specified period.

Other documents relating to the foreign application may consist of the
following:

(i) a copy of the search reports in English on the corresponding or related
foreign application prepared by the European, Japanese or United States Patent
and Trademark Offices, by the searching authorities under the Patent
Cooperation Treaty or by the office where the first patent application was
filed;

(ii) a photocopy of the relevant documents cited in the search report;

(iii) a copy of the patent granted to the corresponding or related
application;

(iv) a copy of the examination report or decision on the corresponding or
related foreign application; and

(v) other documents which could facilitate adjudication of the application.

PH.08 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

Regulations Final Provisions Section 2,  PRo-PCT Rule 43  
The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex PH.I.

PH.09 ANNUAL FEES

IP Code Section 55,  Regulations Rule 1100,  Regulations Rule 1101,
Regulations Rule 1102,  PRo-PCT Rule 40(b),  IPO Fee Structure,  Part II
General Provisions Sections 1,  Part II General Provisions Sections 2,  Part
II General Provisions Sections 3,  Part II General Provisions Sections 4,
Part II General Provisions Sections 5,  Part II General Provisions Sections 6  
To maintain the patent application or patent, an annual fee shall be paid upon
the expiration of four years from the date of the international publication
regardless of the language of publication, and on each subsequent anniversary
of such date. Payment may be made within three months before the due date. The
obligation to pay the annual fees shall terminate should the application be
withdrawn, refused, or cancelled. If an annual fee is not paid within the
prescribed time, a notice of non-payment shall be published in the IPOPHLE-
Gazette. After publication, a notice shall also be immediately mailed to the
patent owner, applicant, or resident agent. Within a grace period of six
months from the publication of the notice of non-payment in the IPOPHL
E-Gazette, the annual fee plus the prescribed surcharge for delayed payment
and the publication fee must be paid in full. In case of failure to pay the
annual fee, surcharge, and the publication fee within the grace period, a
notice that the application is deemed withdrawn or that the patent is
considered as lapsed as of the date following the expiration of the original
period within which the annual fee was due, shall be issued and published in
the IPOPHL E-Gazette and recorded in the appropriate Register of the Office.

PH.10 CLAIMS FEES

Regulations Rule 417,  IPO Fee Structure,  Part II General Provisions Section
6  
Any application comprising more than five claims, independent and/or
multiple/alternative dependent claims at the time of filing, or claims added
after the filing date over and above five, incurs payment of a claims fee. The
claims fee shall be payable within one month from the date of entry into the
national phase. If the claims fees have not been paid in due time, they may
still be validly paid within a grace period of one month following a notice
from the Office indicating the failure to pay the claims fee. If the claims
fee is not paid within the time limit and the grace period referred to in Rule
417, or the claims fee is not fully paid within the time limit prescribed
during substantive examination of the application, the claim or claims
concerned shall be deemed withdrawn.

PH.11 FEE AND TIME LIMIT FOR REQUESTING EXAMINATION

PRo-PCT Rule 40(c)  
There is no need to file a separate request for substantive examination in the
case of international applications, but the substantive examination fee has to
be paid at the date of entry into the national phase or within six months
thereafter. The international application shall be deemed withdrawn if the
substantive examination fee is not paid within six months from the date of
entry into the national phase. The applicant may use a form for payment
provided by the Office for this purpose.

PH.12 FEE FOR GRANT

IP Code Section 50.1,  IP Code Section 50.2,  Regulations Rule 1000  
If the required fees for grant and printing are not paid in due time, the
application shall be deemed to be withdrawn.

PH.13 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PRo-PCT Rule 35(d),  Regulations Rule 916,  Regulations Rule 917,  Regulations
Rule 918,  Regulations Rule 919,  Regulations Rule 920,  Regulations Rule 921,
Regulations Rule 922,  Regulations Rule 923,  Regulations Rule 924,
Regulations Rule 925,  Regulations Rule 926,  Regulations Rule 927  
During the national phase, and at any time before a patent is granted or
refused on the international application, the applicant may present amendments
to the specification, claims and drawings in accordance with the IP Code and
its implementing Rules and Regulations.

PH.14 REQUIREMENTS FOR APPLICATIONS RELATING TO BIOLOGICAL MATERIALS AND
MICROORGANISMS

Regulations Rule 408(b)  
If the depositary institution and the file number of the culture deposit are
not stated in the application at the time of filing the application, the said
information shall be submitted within two months from a request by the
examiner.

PH.15 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PRo-PCT Rule 37  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase of the Guide.

PH.16 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase of the
Guide.

PH.17 EXTENSION OF TIME LIMITS

Regulations Rule 928(b)  
The time limit for reply to an official action requiring a response may be
extended only for good and sufficient cause. Any request for such extension
must be filed not later than the day on which the response is due. The
examiner may grant a maximum of two extensions, provided that the aggregate
period granted, inclusive of the initial period allowed to file the response,
shall not exceed six months from the mailing date of the official action
requiring such response.

PH.18 REVIVAL OF APPLICATION

Regulations Rule 929  
An application deemed withdrawn for failure to prosecute may be revived as a
pending application within a period of four months from the mailing date of
the notice of withdrawal if it is shown to the satisfaction of the Director of
the Bureau of Patents that the failure was due to fraud, accident, mistake or
excusable negligence. A petition to revive an application deemed withdrawn
must be accompanied by showing of a justifiable reason for the failure to
prosecute, a complete response, and full payment of the required fee.

PH.19 PETITIONS AND APPEAL

IP Code Section 51,  Regulations Rule 1300,  Regulations Rule 1301,
Regulations Rule 1302,  Regulations Rule 1303,  Regulations Rule 1304,
Regulations Rule 1305,  Regulations Rule 1306,  Regulations Rule 1307,
Regulations Rule 1308,  Regulations Rule 1309,  Regulations Rule 1310,
Regulations Rule 1311  
Petitions may be filed with the Director of Patents from any repeated action
or requirement of the examiner which is not subject to appeal and in other
appropriate circumstances. The final order of refusal of the examiner to grant
the patent may be appealed to the Director of the Bureau of Patents.

PH.20 UTILITY MODEL

IP Code Section 108,  IP Code Section 109,  IP Code Section 111,  PRo-PCT Rule
5  
In respect of the Philippines as a designated or elected State, an applicant
cannot seek two kinds of protection for the same subject, one for a utility
model registration and the other for the grant of a patent, whether
simultaneously or consecutively.

Regulations Rule 1405,  Regulations Rule 1406  
All applications for utility models shall be registered without substantive
examination provided that all required fees, including fees for excess claims
and publication are paid and all formal requirements set forth in the
Regulations are complied with. However, applicants may request the Office to
prepare a registrability report in accordance with Rules 1901-1903 before
initiating infringement proceedings in respect of the registered utility
model. The Office shall conduct a formality examination of the application and
a report thereon shall be transmitted to the applicant.

PH.21 CONVERSION

IP Code Section 110,  Regulations Rule 1417,  Regulations Rule 1418  
At any time before the grant or refusal of a patent, an application for a
patent may, upon payment of the prescribed fee, be converted into an
application for registration of a utility model, which shall be accorded the
filing date of the initial application. It may be converted only once.

At any time before the grant or refusal of a utility model registration, an
application for a utility model registration may, upon payment of the
prescribed fee, be converted into a patent application, which shall be
accorded the filing date of the initial application.

##  Annexes

Annex PH.I - Fees

Patents

Pre-examination:

— Filing fee

No filing fee is payable if priority of an earlier national application is
claimed (PRo-PCT Rules 35(b) and 40(a))

big entity 4,320 PHP

small entity 2,000 PHP

— For each sheet in excess of thirty (30)

big entity 36 PHP

small entity 18 PHP

— For each claim in excess of five (5)

big entity 360 PHP

small entity 180 PHP

— Request for right of priority

big entity 2,160 PHP

small entity 1,000 PHP

— Request for extension of time to file priority documents

big entity 1,560 PHP

small entity 740 PHP

— Divisional application (for each division)

big entity 4,320 PHP

small entity 2,000 PHP

— Conversion from utility model to patent

big entity 1,440 PHP

small entity 690 PHP

— Additional fee for late entry into the national phase

big entity 2,160 PHP

small entity 1,000 PHP

Examination:

— Request for:

— Extension of time to file response:

— First

big entity 720 PHP

small entity 360 PHP

— Second

big entity 780 PHP

small entity 390 PHP

— Substantive examination

big entity 4,200 PHP

small entity 2,010 PHP

— Revival

big entity 1,200 PHP

small entity 570 PHP

— Revival fee for non-payment of the substantive examination fee

big entity 960 PHP

small entity 920 PHP

— Preparation of amended page(s) of the master copy of the specification
and/or claims, per page

big entity 70 PHP

small entity —

Post-examination:

— Amendment or correction in the letters patent (plus publication fee)

big entity 600 PHP

small entity 300 PHP

— Petition for:

— Any amendment or any correction of mistakes in a letters patent of formal
and clerical nature without fault of Office

big entity 720 PHP

small entity 360 PHP

— Any amendment or any correction in a letters patent of a substantive nature

big entity 1,800 PHP

small entity 860 PHP

Annual fees:

— for the 5th year

big entity 3,240 PHP

small entity 1,550 PHP

— for the 6th year

big entity 4,320 PHP

small entity 2,000 PHP

— for the 7th year

big entity 5,400 PHP

small entity 2,580 PHP

— for the 8th year

big entity 6,480 PHP

small entity 3,100 PHP

— for the 9th year

big entity 8,640 PHP

small entity 4,140 PHP

— for the 10th year

big entity 10,800 PHP

small entity 5,170 PHP

— for the 11th year

big entity 13,920 PHP

small entity 6,670 PHP

— for the 12th year

big entity 17,280 PHP

small entity 8,280 PHP

— for the 13th year

big entity 20,400 PHP

small entity 9,770 PHP

— for the 14th year

big entity 24,840 PHP

small entity 11,900 PHP

— for the 15th year

big entity 29,160 PHP

small entity 13,970 PHP

— for the 16th year

big entity 33,360 PHP

small entity 15,980 PHP

— for the 17th year

big entity 37,680 PHP

small entity 18,050 PHP

— for the 18th year

big entity 45,240 PHP

small entity 21,670 PHP

— for the 19th year

big entity 54,360 PHP

small entity 26,040 PHP

— for the 20th year

big entity 65,160 PHP

small entity 26,040 PHP

— Annual fee for each claim in excess of five (5) [5th to 20th year] due and
payable at the same time as the applicable Annual Fee listed above.

big entity 420 PHP

small entity 210 PHP

— Notice and publication of non-payment of annual fee (minimum; approximately
1/8 page)

big entity 360 PHP

small entity 360 PHP

Utility models

Entity

Pre-examination: Big Small

— Filing fee

big entity 3,600 PHP

small entity 1,720 PHP

— For each sheet in excess of thirty (30)

big entity 36 PHP

small entity 18 PHP

— For each claim in excess of five (5)

big entity 240 PHP

small entity 120 PHP

— Request for right of priority

big entity 1,800 PHP

small entity 860 PHP

— Divisional application (for each division)

big entity 3,600 PHP

small entity 1,720 PHP

— Conversion from patent to utility model

big entity 660 PHP

small entity 330 PHP

— Additional fee for late entry into the national phase

big entity 1,800 PHP

small entity 860 PHP

Examination:

— Request for:

— Extension of time to file response:

— First

big entity 720 PHP

small entity 360 PHP

— Second

big entity 780 PHP

small entity 390 PHP

— Registrability report

big entity 1,320 PHP

small entity 630 PHP

— Revival

big entity 1,200 PHP

small entity 570 PHP

— Preparation of amended page(s) of the master copy of the specification
and/or claims, per page

big entity 84 PHP

small entity 84 PHP

Post-examination:

— Amendment or correction to the registration (plus publication fee)

big entity 600 PHP

small entity 300 PHP

— Petition for:

— Any amendment or any correction of mistakes in a registration of formal and
clerical nature without fault of Office

big entity 600 PHP

small entity 300 PHP

— Any amendment or any correction of mistakes in a registration of substantive
nature

big entity 800 PHP

small entity 400 PHP

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of the fees has to be effected in Philippine pesos (PHP). Fees
shall be paid on or before the due date prescribed in the IP Code or the rules
and regulations. Where no due date is specified, the fees shall be due upon
submission or filing of the request for the service or material incurring the
fee. Fees shall be paid in cash, money order, bank drafts and/or cheques in
Philippine currency. Payments in the form of money order, bank drafts and/or
cheques shall be made payable to the Intellectual Property Office of the
Philippines

Fees shall be considered to have been paid as follows:

(a) in case of cash payment: the date of receipt in cash of the amount due in
full.

(b) in case of money order, cheque or bank draft payment: the date of receipt
of the money order, cheque or bank draft provided that the same is honored
upon first presentation and provided that the payment covers the amount due in
full.

Subject to the IP Code or the applicable Regulations, the Office may give the
person making the payment the opportunity to fully pay the fee or any
deficiency within a maximum period of two months from the mailing date of the
notice. Failure to pay the full amount shall not result in any refund
whatsoever of any amount already paid.

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex PH.II - National phase entry application
form](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_ph.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a b c The Office is competent only if the international search is or has
been carried out by that Office.  
2 ^ a b If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under
PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with
the requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.  
3 ^ a b c d e Where necessary, the Office will invite the applicant to comply
with the requirement within a time limit which shall not be less than two
months from the date of the invitation.  
4 ^ a b c This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration
has been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  

Change(s) as of 1 March 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

  

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

235 USD

  

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

352 USD

  

  
Annex D - International Searching Authority

Search fee (PCT Rule 16):

This fee is payable to the receiving Office in the currency or one of the
currencies accepted by it

511 CHF

570 EUR

600 USD

The amounts below apply where the applicant is a small entity which refers to
any natural or juridical person whose assets are worth not more than one
hundred million pesos (P100M); or any entity, agency, office, bureau or unit
of the Philippine government including government-owned or controlled
corporations, state universities and colleges and government-owned or
government-run schools

170 CHF

190 EUR

200 USD

  

  
Annex E - International Preliminary Examining Authority

Handling fee (PCT Rule 57.1):

235 USD

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority. It
is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Close

Current version applicable from 1 Mar 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

