####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
PL - Useful informationPL - International PhasePL - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationPL - Annex C - Receiving
OfficePL - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialPL - National PhasePL - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phasePL - The procedure in the national PhasePL - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide PL - Poland  
Patent Office of the Republic of Poland

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **19 January 2024**

(published on 19 January 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
Useful information: Useful information  
GENERAL INFO: Availability of international-type search  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for PL - Patent Office of the Republic of Poland)).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Patent Office of the Republic of Poland

PPL: Industrial Property Law

List of currencies used in this document:

CHF (Swiss franc), PLN (Polish zloty)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=PL).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Article 64(2)(a)(ii), Rule 49.6(f)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Poland

Two-letter code:

[PL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PL&doc-lang=EN)

Poland - Patent Office of the Republic of Poland

Name of Office:

Patent Office of the Republic of Poland

Location:

Al. Niepodleglości 188/192  
PL-00-950 Warszawa  
Poland

Mailing address:

P.O. Box 203  
PL-00-950 Warszawa  
Poland

Telephone:

International Applications Division  
(48-22) 579 01 27  
Contact Center  
(48-22) 579 05 55

E-mail:

plpctteam@uprp.gov.pl

Website:

<http://www.uprp.gov.pl>

Facsimile:

(48-22) 579 03 63

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes,

within 14 days from the date of the transmission

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[PL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PL&doc-lang=EN)

Poland - Patent Office of the Republic of Poland

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Industrial Property Law, Article 40

Yes

Filing restrictions apply to:

Applications by nationals and residents

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: PL

European patent: EP

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents

Utility models

European:

Patents

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

Article 47, paragraph 5 of the Industrial Property Law (PPL)

Provisional protection after international publication:

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a national patent:

The applicant must submit to the Office a translation of the international
application into Polish. The provisional protection applies as from the date
of the subsequent publication of the translation of the international
application (bibliographic data, abstract and figure of drawings, if any) in
the Official Gazette of the Patent Office [Biuletyn Urzędu Patentowego].

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a European patent:

Information not yet available

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

For national protection

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished later. If not already complied with
within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office
will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit
fixed in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

For a European patent

Refer to [Annex B(EP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=ep&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Poland

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (refer to PCT Rule 12.3)

If the language in which the international application is filed is not a
language of publication and no translation is required for the purposes of
international search (PCT Rule 12.3(a)), the applicant will have to furnish a
translation of the application into English (PCT Rule 12.4(a))

English,

French,

German,

Polish

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Same language as the international application (English, French, German or
Polish); or English and another filing language

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

2

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing or EPO Online Filing

For the relevant notifications by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 5 November 2015, pages 178 _et seq._ , 13 September 2018,
page 290 and 4 August 2022, page 208.

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C
of the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[XV](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=XV&doc-lang=EN)

Visegrad Patent Institute - Visegrad Patent Institute (VPI)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[XV](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=XV&doc-lang=EN)

Visegrad Patent Institute - Visegrad Patent Institute (VPI)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

300 PLN

International filing fee:

Equivalent in PLN of 1,330 CHF

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

Equivalent in PLN of 15 CHF

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

Equivalent in PLN of 200 CHF

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

Equivalent in PLN of 300 CHF

Search fee:

Equivalent in PLN of the search fee payable to the European Patent Office in
EUR:  
Refer to  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(XV)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

— for a patent or a utility model, up to 20 sheets:

60 PLN

— or for more than 20 sheets:

125 PLN

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

80 PLN

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

Yes, if the applicant has neither a residence nor a principal place of
business in Poland, or in another member State of the European Union or the
European Free Trade Association

Who can act as agent?

Any patent attorney registered to practice before the Office

A list is available on the website of the Office at:  
<https://grab.uprp.pl/RzecznicyPatentowi/Strony%20witryny/Wyszukiwanie%20rzecznika%20patentowego.aspx>

Waiver of power of attorney:

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Refer to the Office

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Refer to the Office

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

None

— any additional indications:

None

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

Name and address of the depositor

Additional information

Deposits may also be made for the purposes of patent procedure before the
Patent Office of the Republic of Poland with the national depositary
authorities—Institute of Agricultural and Food Biotechnology and Serum and
Vaccine Research Laboratory.

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Polish

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22: Request, description, claims (if amended, both as
originally filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article
19), any text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Request, description, claims, any text matter of
drawings, abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally
filed and as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary
examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

Patents or utility models

— where an international preliminary examination has been carried out

350 PLN

— where no international preliminary examination has been carried out

550 PLN

— additional fee for each sheet in excess of 20

25 PLN

Fee for priority claims

per priority 100 PLN

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Statement justifying the applicant’s right to the patent if he is not the
inventor 1

Statement justifying the applicant’s priority right where the applicants are
not identical 1

Appointment of an agent if the applicant has neither a residence nor a
principal place of business in Poland, or in another member State of the
European Union or the European Free Trade Association

Translation of the priority document into Polish if it is not in English,
French, German or Russian 2

Translation of the international application to be furnished in three copies,
except that the translation of the request needs to be furnished only in one
copy

Who can act as agent?

Any patent attorney registered to practice before the Office

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

A list is available on the website of the Office at:  
<https://grab.uprp.pl/RzecznicyPatentowi/Strony%20witryny/Wyszukiwanie%20rzecznika%20patentowego.aspx>

##  The procedure in the national Phase

PL.01 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

PL.02 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex PL.I.

PL.03 DESIGNATION OF THE INVENTOR

PPL Art. 32  
If the applicant is not the inventor, he must name the inventor and state the
basis of his right to a patent.

PL.04 POWER OF ATTORNEY

An agent must be appointed by filing a power of attorney. A model (not an
official form) is given in Annex PL.II.

PL.05 LACK OF UNITY OF INVENTION

PPL Art. 39  
In case of lack of unity of invention, the Office will invite the applicant to
file divisional applications in respect of the additional inventions claimed
in the international application and to pay prescribed filing fees within a
time limit fixed in the invitation. In such a case, the decision of the Office
may be subject of appeal.

PL.06 FEE FOR GRANT

PPL Art. 52  
The first annual fee (for the first three years) is treated as the fee for
grant. The amount of the said fee is indicated in Annex PL.I. The first annual
fee is due within three months from the date of receipt of the invitation to
pay that fee.

PL.07 ANNUAL FEES

Subsequent annual fees should be paid in advance not later than by the date of
expiration of the previous protection period. Annual fees can still be paid,
together with 30% surcharge for each additional month, within six months from
the due date. The amounts of the annual fees are indicated in Annex PL.I.

PL.08 FEE FOR PUBLICATION OF THE PATENT SPECIFICATION

PPL Art. 54  
A fee for publication of the patent specification must be paid within three
months from the date of receipt of the invitation to pay that fee. The amount
of that fee is indicated in Annex PL.I.

PL.09 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  PPL Art. 37  
The applicant may make amendments to the description, claims and drawings
until the decision to grant a patent has been taken. Where the subject matter
of the amended application exceeds the scope of the application as originally
filed, the subject matter exceeding that scope will not be subject of any
procedure concerning that application, but may be filed by the applicant as a
divisional application with a new filing date.

PL.10 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. If, upon review under PCT Article 25, the Office denies an
error or omission on the part of the receiving Office or the International
Bureau, an appeal against this decision may be lodged with the Office.

PL.11 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2)  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.

PL.12

Time limits fixed by the Office may be extended upon request of the applicant
submitted before the expiration of those time limits.

PL.13

PPL Art. 243  
Reinstatement of rights may be requested where the applicant has failed to
observe a time limit during the international phase or before the Office. A
request for reinstatement must be presented within two months after the
removal of the cause of the failure to perform the action but not later than 6
months after the expiration of the time limit which has not been observed. At
the same time the omitted act must be completed. The applicant must prove in
his request that the delay in complying with the requirement within the time
limit was caused by circumstances beyond the applicant’s control.

PL.14 RESTORATION OF THE RIGHT OF PRIORITY

PPL Art. 243  
A request for the restoration of the right of priority may be filed with the
Office where the applicant, in spite of all due care required by the
circumstances, failed to timely file the international application within the
priority period (refer to National Phase, paragraphs 6.006 - 6.011).

PL.15 UTILITY MODEL

PPL Art. 94,  PPL Art. 95,  PPL Art. 96,  PPL Art. 97 PPL Art. 98,  PPL Art.
99,  PPL Art. 100  
If the applicant, on the basis of an international application, wishes to
obtain a utility model instead of a patent in Poland, the applicant must, on
entry into the national phase, so indicate to the Office.

PL.16

The requirements for utility models during the national phase are basically
the same as for patents.

PL.17 CONVERSION

PPL Art. 38  
The applicant may apply for conversion of the international application for a
patent into an application for a utility model in the international
application (in the request), during the processing of the patent application
in the national phase or within two months from the date when a decision to
refuse a patent takes effect. In that case, the utility model application is
deemed to be filed on the filing date of that patent application.

##  Annexes

Annex PL.I - Fees

National fee for patent or utility model:

— where international preliminary examination has been carried out

350 PLN

— where no international preliminary examination has been carried out (if more
than two inventions, the annual fee is increased by 50%)

550 PLN

— additional fee for each sheet in excess of 20

25 PLN

Fee for priority claims

per priority 100 PLN

Fee for publication of the patent specification

90 PLN

— and additionally for each commenced sheet in excess of 10

10 PLN

Fee for publication of the utility model specification

90 PLN

Annual fees:

The annual fees are counted from the filing date

— for patent:

for the first three years

480 PLN

for the 4th year

250 PLN

for the 5th year

300 PLN

for the 6th year

350 PLN

for the 7th year

400 PLN

for the 8th year

450 PLN

for the 9th year

550 PLN

for the 10th year

650 PLN

for the 11th year

750 PLN

for the 12th year

800 PLN

for the 13th year

900 PLN

for the 14th year

950 PLN

for the 15th year

1,050 PLN

for the 16th year

1,150 PLN

for the 17th year

1,250 PLN

for the 18th year

1,350 PLN

for the 19th year

1,450 PLN

for the 20th year

1,550 PLN

— for patent of addition:

for the whole term of protection

1,500 PLN

— for utility model:

for the first three years

250 PLN

for the 4th and the 5th years, per year

300 PLN

for the 6th to the 8th year, per year

900 PLN

for the 9th and the 10th years, per year

1,100 PLN

Fee for restoration of the right of priority

80 PLN

How can payment of fees be effected?

Applicants who are foreign nationals or foreign entities must pay all fees
(including annual fees) through a patent attorney resident in Poland

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex PL.II - Power of
attorney](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_pl.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a b This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  
2 ^ a If the validity of the priority claim is relevant to the determination
of whether the invention concerned is patentable.  

Change(s) as of 19 January 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Useful information

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Patent Office of the Republic of Poland

PPL: Industrial Property Law

  

  
Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental Organization

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

Article 47, paragraph 5 of the Industrial Property Law (PPL)

  

Close

Current version applicable from 19 Jan 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

