####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
PT - Useful informationPT - International PhasePT - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationPT - Annex C - Receiving
OfficePT - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialPT - National PhasePT - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phasePT - The procedure in the national PhasePT - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide PT - Portugal  
National Institute of Industrial Property (Portugal)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **1 January 2024**

(published on 1 December 2023)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
RO: RO fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 2 Nov 2023, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for PT - National Institute of Industrial Property \(Portugal\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: National Institute of Industrial Property (Portugal)

PTL: Industrial Property Code (Portugal)

APL: Administrative Procedures Law

List of currencies used in this document:

EUR (Euro)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=PT).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Portugal

Two-letter code:

[PT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PT&doc-lang=EN)

Portugal - National Institute of Industrial Property (Portugal)

Name of Office:

National Institute of Industrial Property (Portugal)

Location:

Campo das Cebolas  
1149-035 Lisboa  
Portugal

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(351-21) 881 81 00

E-mail:

servico.publico@inpi.pt

Website:

<http://inpi.justica.gov.pt/>

Facsimile:

(351-21) 886 98 59

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes,

within 14 days from the date of the transmission

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[PT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PT&doc-lang=EN)

Portugal - National Institute of Industrial Property (Portugal)

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Industrial Property Code, Article 92 “Submission of International
Applications”

Unless priority of an earlier application filed in Portugal is claimed

Yes

Filing restrictions apply to:

Applications by residents

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: PT

European patent: EP

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents

Utility models (a utility model may be sought instead of or in addition to a
national patent)

European:

Patents

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a national patent:

After a patent has been granted, the applicant is entitled to reasonable
compensation for the period following the international publication of the
international application. For that purpose, and since the international
publication is not effected in Portuguese, the applicant must submit to the
National Institute of Industrial Property a translation of the claims into
Portuguese, accompanied by a copy of the drawings, if any. The provisional
protection applies as from the date when the translated claims are made
available to the public.

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a European patent:

After the international publication or, if that publication was effected in a
language which is not one of the official languages of the EPO, after the
publication by the EPO of the international application submitted to the EPO
in one of its official languages, the applicant must submit to the National
Institute of Industrial Property a translation of the claims into Portuguese,
accompanied by a copy of the drawings, if any. The provisional protection
applies as from the date when the translated claims are made available to the
public.

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

For national protection

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If not already complied with within the time limit
applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant
to comply with the requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

For a European patent

Refer to [Annex B(EP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=ep&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Portugal

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3).

English,

French,

German,

Portuguese

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

The Office has not specifically notified the International Bureau of the
language that it accepts under PCT Rule 12.1(d).

Same as above

Language in which the request may be filed:

English,

French,

German,

Portuguese

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via EPO Online Filing or ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notifications by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 28 January 2016, pages 30 _et seq._ and 13 September 2018,
page 290.

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C
of the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
If the receiving Office does not accept international applications in
electronic form in such format, the international application will be
transmitted to the International Bureau as receiving Office (PCT Rule
19.4(a)(ii-_bis_)).

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

online 11,80 EUR

on paper 23,59 EUR

International filing fee:

1,381 EUR

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

16 EUR

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

208 EUR

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

311 EUR

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EP)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

electronic copy 17.70 EUR

paper copy 47.16 EUR

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

where the request is filed online 176.88 EUR

where the request is filed on paper 353.76 EUR

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No

Who can act as agent?

An official industrial property agent, an appointed lawyer, or a registered
representative

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

If the applicant is not represented by an official industrial property agent

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

If the applicant is not represented by an official industrial property agent

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

None

— any additional indications:

At the time of filing (as part of the application)

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, relevant information on the
characteristics of the microorganism

Additional information

For the purposes of the patent procedure before the National Institute of
Industrial Property (Portugal), a deposit is required not later than at the
date of filing the international application with any depositary institution
having acquired the status of international depositary authority under the
Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of
Microorganisms for the Purposes of Patent Procedure.

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Portuguese

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the applicant may still file the translation and/or pay
the fee within one month from the expiration of the applicable time limit,
subject to the payment of a surcharge equal to 50% of the filing fee

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, as amended only), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, only as amended by the
annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the applicant may still file the translation and/or pay
the fee within one month from the expiration of the applicable time limit,
subject to the payment of a surcharge equal to 50% of the filing fee

Includes publication and examination

Patents

Filing fee (includes publication and examination):

Online 117.93 EUR

On paper 235.86 EUR

Utility models

Filing fee (includes publication and examination):

Online 206.37 EUR

On paper 412.74 EUR

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application 1 2

Deed of assignment or transfer if the applicant is not the inventor 1

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in Portugal 2

Who can act as agent?

An official industrial property agent, an appointed lawyer, or a registered
representative

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

PT.01 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

PT.02 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment referred to in the Summary and in this Chapter is
outlined in Annex PT.I.

PT.03 POWER OF ATTORNEY

An agent must be appointed by filing a power of attorney. A model is given in
Annex PT.II.

PT.04 RENEWAL FEES

PTL Art. 368.1,  PTL Art. 368.2,  PTL Art. 368.3  
Annual fees for the first two years are included in the filing fee. They are
payable for the third and each subsequent year following the international
filing date, even when the corresponding rights have not yet been granted. For
the third and fourth annual fees the Office applies a reduction of 100% (the
applicant does not pay any fee). However, the applicant must indicate to the
Office that the patent should be renewed for the third and fourth years. The
first payment must be made after the filing of the Portuguese translation of
the international application, and must occur within three months from the
next anniversary of the application filing date following the filing of the
translation. Subsequently, annual fees become due each year during the six
months preceding the anniversary of the international filing date. Late
payment can be made within six months from that anniversary together with 50%
surcharge. The amounts of the annual fees are shown in Annex PT.I.

PT.05 DEED OF ASSIGNMENT

Where the applicant claims the priority of an earlier application under which
he is not the applicant, a deed (or deeds) of assignment must be furnished.
For details, refer to the sample of such deed (not an official form) in Annex
PT.III. Legalization is not required. For time limits, refer to the Summary.
Where the applicant is not the inventor, it is sufficient to designate the
inventor and to state how the applicant acquired the right to the patent.

PT.06 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41  
The applicant may amend or correct the international application up to the
grant of a patent, provided the scope of the subject matter of the application
is not broadened thereby. Requests for amendments may be subject to payment of
a fee.

PT.07 PUBLICATION OF THE APPLICATION

PTL Art. 69  
After the international publication, the Office publishes in the Industrial
Property Bulletin a notice that the application has entered the national
phase, with all the elements which are relevant for the identification of the
application. An opposition may be filed by a third party within two months
from the date of publication of the notice and is subject to a fee, whose
amount is shown in Annex PT.I. If no opposition is filed, the application is
subject to a substantive examination.

PT.08 SUBSTANTIVE EXAMINATION

All patent applications are subject to substantive examination, but no special
request has to be made.

PT.09 PUBLICATION OF GRANT

PTL Art. 70  
If the examination concludes that the patent can be granted, a notice of
acceptance of grant shall be published in the Industrial Property Bulletin.

PT.10 REVIEW UNDER PCT ARTICLE 25

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51,  APL Art. 158 _et seq._  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. If, upon review under PCT Article 25, the Office denies an
error or omission on the part of the receiving Office or the International
Bureau, an appeal may be filed with the President of the Office against the
decision of the Director of Services. If the Office confirms its decision,
another appeal may be filed with the competent Minister and ultimately with
the Lisbon Administrative Court which will decide on the appeal. The amount of
the appeal fee is shown in Annex PT.I.

PT.11 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2)  
Reestablishment of rights may be requested where the applicant was unable, for
legitimate reasons, to observe a time limit during the international phase or
before the Office. A request for reestablishment must be filed with the Office
in writing and the omitted act must be performed. The request must state the
grounds on which it is based and set out the facts to which it refers.

PT.12 UTILITY MODEL

PCT Art. 4(3),  PCT Art. 43,  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1,  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1(a),
PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1(b),  PCT Rule 76.5,  PTL Art. 119  
If the applicant wishes to obtain a utility model in Portugal, on the basis of
an international application

(i) instead of a patent or

(ii) in addition to a patent, the applicant, when performing the acts referred
to in Article 22 or 39, shall so indicate to the Office.

PT.13

PTL Art. 119.5,  PTL Art. 119.6,  PTL Art. 142  
If the international application is for a utility model instead of a patent,
the requirements are basically the same as for patents. The maximum term of
protection for a utility model is 10 years. Any utility model is no longer
valid after a patent has been granted for the same invention.

PT.14

If the international application is for both a utility model and a patent, the
applicant must, within the time limit applicable for entry into the national
phase, comply with the same requirements as for a patent application except
that he has to:

(i) pay two filing fees for both the patent and the utility model,

(ii) where the international application was not filed in Portugal, to furnish
a translation in duplicate into Portuguese.

PT.15 SUBSTANTIVE EXAMINATION

PTL Art. 132  
All utility model applications are subject to substantive examination since 1
July 2019. For the non-examined utility models filed before 1 July 2019 that
are still pending or that were provisionally granted, the examination can be
requested by the applicant at any given time. In this case, this option should
be selected in the application form or, if the examination is requested later,
a form should be filled in for this purpose and the corresponding fee should
be paid.

PT.16 PROVISIONAL GRANT FOR THE UTILITY MODEL

PTL Art.6 (transitional provisions)  
The non-examined utility models that were filed before 1 July 2019 and that
are still pending can be provisionally granted if they were not subject to
substantive examination and no opposition was filed. However, non-examined
utility models are no longer accepted by the Office since 1 July 2019.

PT.17

Where, in the case referred to in paragraph PT.13, the international
application does not contain drawings, the applicant must furnish the
drawing(s) within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or Article
39(1). Where the applicant does not furnish the drawing(s) within the
applicable time limit, the Office will invite him to furnish the drawing(s)
within a time limit fixed in the invitation. Where an international
application is converted into a utility model application (refer to next
paragraph), the drawing(s) must be submitted with the request for conversion.

PT.18 CONVERSION

An international application for a patent may be converted into a utility
model application after the applicant has complied with the requirements for
entry into the national phase for a patent application as mentioned in the
Summary. The conversion is subject to payment of a fee for conversion shown in
Annex PT.I and may be requested up to the grant of the patent.

PT.19

An international application for a utility model may be converted into a
patent application after the applicant has complied with the requirements for
entry into the national phase for a utility model application, as shown in the
Summary. The conversion is subject to the payment of a fee for conversion
shown in Annex PT.I and may be requested up to the grant of the utility model.

##  Annexes

Annex PT.I - Fees

Patents

Filing fee (includes publication and examination)

Online 117.93 EUR

On paper 235.86 EUR

Amendment fees:

— corrections of the applicant or patentee details

—

— claims, description, drawings, abstract, title or other elements

Online 29.48 EUR

On paper 58.96 EUR

Fee for conversion of a patent into a utility model

Online 206.37 EUR

On paper 412.74 EUR

Annual fees:

— for the 1st year to the 4th year

—

— for the 5th year

Online 58.16 EUR

On paper 58.16 EUR

— for the 6th year

Online 87.21 EUR

On paper 87.21 EUR

— for the 7th year

Online 116.29 EUR

On paper 116.29 EUR

— for the 8th year

Online 174.45 EUR

On paper 174.45 EUR

— for the 9th year

Online 348.87 EUR

On paper 348.87 EUR

— for the 10th year to the 11th year, per year

Online 407.03 EUR

On paper 407.03 EUR

— for the 12th year

Online 465.16 EUR

On paper 465.16 EUR

— for the 13th year

Online 523.31 EUR

On paper 523.31 EUR

— for the 14th year

Online 581.47 EUR

On paper 581.47 EUR

— for the 15th year to the 16th year, per year

Online 639.59 EUR

On paper 639.59 EUR

— for the 17th year to the 18h year, per year

Online 755.89 EUR

On paper 755.89 EUR

— for the 19th year to the 20th year, per year

Online 814.04 EUR

On paper 814.04 EUR

Fee for late payment of annual fees

50% of the online fee

50% of the paper fee

Opposition fee

Online 58.97 EUR

On paper 117.94 EUR

Appeal fee (for each level)

Online 176.88 EUR

On paper 353.76 EUR

Fee for reestablishment of rights

Online 176.88 EUR

On paper 353.76 EUR

Fee for restoration of the right of priority

Online 176.88 EUR

On paper 353.76 EUR

Utility models

Filing fee (includes publication and examination )

Online 206.37 EUR

On paper 412.74 EUR

Examination fee

Whenever examination is requested for non-examined utility models (non-
examined utility models are no longer accepted by the Office since 1 July
2019)

Online 88.45 EUR

On paper 176.90 EUR

Amendment fees:

— corrections of the applicant or patentee details.

—

— claims, description, drawings, abstract, title or other elements

Online 29.48 EUR

On paper 58.96 EUR

Fee for conversion of a utility model into a patent

Online 117.93 EUR

On paper 235.86 EUR

Annual fees:

— for the 1st year to the 4th year

—

— for the 5th year to the 7th year, per year

Online 35.38 EUR

On paper 53.07 EUR

— for the 8th year to the 10th year, per year

Online 41.25 EUR

On paper 58.97 EUR

Fee for late payment of annual fees

50% of the online fee  
50% of the paper fee

Opposition fee

Online 58.97 EUR

On paper 117.94 EUR

Appeal fee (for each level)

Online 176.88 EUR

On paper 353.76 EUR

Fee for reestablishment of rights

Online 176.88 EUR

On paper 353.76 EUR

Fee for restoration of the right of priority

Online 176.88 EUR

On paper 353.76 EUR

How can payment of fees be effected?

Payment of fees by nationals may be effected in cash, by check, by ATM or by
postal order for paper filings.  
For online filings, payment of fees should be made by ATM

For non-nationals, online payments should be made by credit card (Visa or
MasterCard)

Payment of fees by bank transfer is only permitted under very exceptional
conditions. Please contact the  
Office at servico.publico@inpi.pt for further details

All payments must give the application number (national, if already known;
international, if the national application number is not yet known), the name
of the applicant and the category of fee being paid

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex PT.II - Power of
attorney](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_pt.pdf)

[Annex PT.III - Deed of
assignment](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_pt.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a b This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  
2 ^ a b Unless an e-mail address or facsimile number is furnished.  

Change(s) as of 1 January 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

International filing fee:

1,381 EUR

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

208 EUR

  

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

electronic copy 17.70 EUR

paper copy 47.16 EUR

  

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

where the request is filed online 176.88 EUR

where the request is filed on paper 353.76 EUR

  

  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Filing fee (includes publication and examination):

Online 117.93 EUR

On paper 235.86 EUR

  

Filing fee (includes publication and examination):

Online 206.37 EUR

On paper 412.74 EUR

  

  
Annexes

Filing fee (includes publication and examination)

Online 117.93 EUR

On paper 235.86 EUR

  

— claims, description, drawings, abstract, title or other elements

Online 29.48 EUR

On paper 58.96 EUR

  

Fee for conversion of a patent into a utility model

Online 206.37 EUR

On paper 412.74 EUR

  

— for the 5th year

Online 58.16 EUR

On paper 58.16 EUR

  

— for the 6th year

Online 87.21 EUR

On paper 87.21 EUR

  

— for the 7th year

Online 116.29 EUR

On paper 116.29 EUR

  

— for the 8th year

Online 174.45 EUR

On paper 174.45 EUR

  

— for the 9th year

Online 348.87 EUR

On paper 348.87 EUR

  

— for the 10th year to the 11th year, per year

Online 407.03 EUR

On paper 407.03 EUR

  

— for the 12th year

Online 465.16 EUR

On paper 465.16 EUR

  

— for the 13th year

Online 523.31 EUR

On paper 523.31 EUR

  

— for the 14th year

Online 581.47 EUR

On paper 581.47 EUR

  

— for the 15th year to the 16th year, per year

Online 639.59 EUR

On paper 639.59 EUR

  

— for the 17th year to the 18h year, per year

Online 755.89 EUR

On paper 755.89 EUR

  

— for the 19th year to the 20th year, per year

Online 814.04 EUR

On paper 814.04 EUR

  

Opposition fee

Online 58.97 EUR

On paper 117.94 EUR

  

Appeal fee (for each level)

Online 176.88 EUR

On paper 353.76 EUR

  

Fee for reestablishment of rights

Online 176.88 EUR

On paper 353.76 EUR

  

Fee for restoration of the right of priority

Online 176.88 EUR

On paper 353.76 EUR

  

Filing fee (includes publication and examination )

Online 206.37 EUR

On paper 412.74 EUR

  

Examination fee

Whenever examination is requested for non-examined utility models (non-
examined utility models are no longer accepted by the Office since 1 July
2019)

Online 88.45 EUR

On paper 176.90 EUR

  

— claims, description, drawings, abstract, title or other elements

Online 29.48 EUR

On paper 58.96 EUR

  

Fee for conversion of a utility model into a patent

Online 117.93 EUR

On paper 235.86 EUR

  

— for the 5th year to the 7th year, per year

Online 35.38 EUR

On paper 53.07 EUR

  

— for the 8th year to the 10th year, per year

Online 41.25 EUR

On paper 58.97 EUR

  

Opposition fee

Online 58.97 EUR

On paper 117.94 EUR

  

Appeal fee (for each level)

Online 176.88 EUR

On paper 353.76 EUR

  

Fee for reestablishment of rights

Online 176.88 EUR

On paper 353.76 EUR

  

Fee for restoration of the right of priority

Online 176.88 EUR

On paper 353.76 EUR

  

Close

Current version applicable from 1 Jan 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

