####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
QA - Useful informationQA - International PhaseQA - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationQA - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeQA - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialQA - National PhaseQA - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseQA - The procedure in the national PhaseQA - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide QA - Qatar  
Intellectual Property Department (Qatar)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **1 March 2024**

(published on 1 February 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
RO: RO fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 1 Jan 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for QA - Intellectual Property Department \(Qatar\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Intellectual Property Department (Qatar)

Law: Decree Law No 30, 2006

List of currencies used in this document:

QAR (Qatari riyal), USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=QA).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Article 64(5)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Friday and Saturday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Qatar

Two-letter code:

[QA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=QA&doc-lang=EN)

Qatar - Intellectual Property Department (Qatar)

Name of Office:

Intellectual Property Department (Qatar)

Location:

Ministry of Economy and Commerce  
P.O. Box 1968  
Lusail City  
Doha  
Qatar

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(974) 4042 3278

E-mail:

malnoaimi@moci.gov.qa  
salobaidli@moci.gov.qa  
walmkhlef@moci.gov.qa

Website:

None

Facsimile:

(974) 4429 4338

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

Yes

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[QA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=QA&doc-lang=EN)

Qatar - Intellectual Property Department (Qatar)

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[QA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=QA&doc-lang=EN)

Qatar - Intellectual Property Department (Qatar)

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Patents

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If not already complied with within the time limit
applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant
to comply with the requirement within a time limit of six months from the date
of the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Qatar

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3).

Arabic,

English

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Same as above

Language in which the request may be filed:

Arabic,

English

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notifications by the Office, refer to Official Notices (PCT
Gazette) dated 20 August 2015, pages 136 _et seq._ and 4 August 2022, pages
208 _et seq._

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EG&doc-lang=EN)

Egypt - Egyptian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EG&doc-lang=EN)

Egypt - Egyptian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

1,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

1

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

400 QAR

International filing fee:

Equivalent in QAR of 1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

Equivalent in QAR of 18 USD

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

Equivalent in QAR of 235 USD

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

Equivalent in QAR of 352 USD

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EG)  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(US)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

600 QAR

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

2,000 QAR

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Qatar  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any attorney or lawyer registered in Qatar, any patent attorney holding a
license to practice and registered before the Office or any natural or legal
person resident in Qatar

Waiver of power of attorney:

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Refer to the Office

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Refer to the Office

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

None

— any additional indications:

None

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

None

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1). The applicant may still furnish the translation within six months
after the expiration of the applicable time limit

Arabic

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1). The applicant may still furnish the translation within six months
after the expiration of the applicable time limit

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended), together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

A copy is required only if the applicant expressly requests an earlier start
of the national phase under PCT Article 23(2) at a time when the applicant has
not received Form PCT/IB/308 and the Office has not received a copy of the
international application from the International Bureau under PCT Article 20.

National fees:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1). The applicant may still furnish the translation within six months
after the expiration of the applicable time limit

Filing fee

— in case of filing by a company, or an educational or research institution

2,000 QAR

— in case of filing by an individual

1,000 QAR

— in case of filing by a student

0 QAR

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

Reductions of the national fee are indicated above

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application 2

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit of six months from the date of the invitation

Document evidencing a change of name of the applicant if the change occurred
after the international filing date and has not been reflected in a
notification from the International Bureau (Form PCT/IB/306)

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not a resident of Qatar

Instrument of assignment of the international application if the applicant has
changed after the international filing date

Translation of the international application to be furnished in two copies,
one on paper and one in electronic form 3

Who can act as agent?

Any attorney or lawyer registered in Qatar

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

QA.01 LANGUAGE OF PROCEEDINGS

The language of proceedings is Arabic.

QA.02 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as originally
filed (refer to National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

QA.03 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex QA.I.

QA.04 ANNUAL FEES

Annual fees are payable for the second and each subsequent year following the
international filing date. Payment of annual fees may still be made within 12
months from the due date, subject to the payment of a 10% surcharge. The
amounts of the annual fees are indicated in Annex QA.I.

QA.05 APPOINTMENT OF AN AGENT

If the applicant is not resident in Qatar, an agent shall be appointed.

QA.06 EXAMINATION

Law Art. 7  
The Office shall examine patent applications. The applicant may appeal a
decision by the Office to refuse grant of the patent within 15 days from the
date of notification by the Office. The amount of the fee for examination is
indicated in Annex QA.I.

QA.07 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION

The applicant may, at any time before the patent is granted, make amendments
to his application, provided that the amendment does not go beyond the
original disclosure. The amount of the fee for amendment is indicated in Annex
QA.I.

QA.08 FEE FOR GRANT

A fee for grant and publication must be paid within three months from the
notification of grant and publication.

QA.09 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2),  PCT Rule 82 _bis_  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.

QA.10 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase.

QA.11 RESTORATION OF THE RIGHT OF PRIORITY

PCT Rule 49 _ter_.2  
Where the international application was filed within two months from the end
of the period for claiming priority of an earlier application, a request for
restoration of the right of priority may be made to the Office in accordance
with the national law (refer to National Phase, paragraphs 6.006 to 6.011).
Such a request will be granted if the Office is satisfied that the failure to
file the application within the 12-month priority period occurred in spite of
due care required by the circumstances. The time limit for filing the request
is one month from the date of entry into the national phase.

##  Annexes

Annex QA.I - Fees

Filing fee

— in case of filing by a company, or an educational or research institution

2,000 QAR

— in case of filing by an individual

1,000 QAR

— in case of filing by a student

0 QAR

Examination fee

— in case of filing by a company, or an educational or research institution

5,000 QAR

— in case of filing by an individual

2,500 QAR

— in case of filing by a student

100 QAR

Annual fees:

— for the 2nd year

— in case of filing by a company, or an educational or research institution

400 QAR

— in case of filing by an individual

200 QAR

— in case of filing by a student

100 QAR

— for the 3rd year

— in case of filing by a company, or an educational or research institution

500 QAR

— in case of filing by an individual

250 QAR

— in case of filing by a student

100 QAR

— for the 4th year

— in case of filing by a company, or an educational or research institution

600 QAR

— in case of filing by an individual

300 QAR

— in case of filing by a student

100 QAR

— for the 5th year

— in case of filing by a company, or an educational or research institution

700 QAR

— in case of filing by an individual

350 QAR

— in case of filing by a student

100 QAR

— for the 6th year

— in case of filing by a company, or an educational or research institution

800 QAR

— in case of filing by an individual

400 QAR

— in case of filing by a student

100 QAR

— for the 7th year

— in case of filing by a company, or an educational or research institution

900 QAR

— in case of filing by an individual

450 QAR

— in case of filing by a student

100 QAR

— for the 8th year

— in case of filing by a company, or an educational or research institution

1,000 QAR

— in case of filing by an individual

500 QAR

— in case of filing by a student

100 QAR

— for the 9th year

— in case of filing by a company, or an educational or research institution

1,100 QAR

— in case of filing by an individual

550 QAR

— in case of filing by a student

100 QAR

— for the 10th year

— in case of filing by a company, or an educational or research institution

1,200 QAR

— in case of filing by an individual

600 QAR

— in case of filing by a student

100 QAR

— for the 11th year

— in case of filing by a company, or an educational or research institution

1,300 QAR

— in case of filing by an individual

650 QAR

— in case of filing by a student

100 QAR

— for the 12th year

— in case of filing by a company, or an educational or research institution

1,400 QAR

— in case of filing by an individual

700 QAR

— in case of filing by a student

100 QAR

— for the 13th year

— in case of filing by a company, or an educational or research institution

1,500 QAR

— in case of filing by an individual

750 QAR

— in case of filing by a student

100 QAR

— for the 14th year

— in case of filing by a company, or an educational or research institution

1,600 QAR

— in case of filing by an individual

800 QAR

— in case of filing by a student

100 QAR

— for the 15th year

— in case of filing by a company, or an educational or research institution

1,700 QAR

— in case of filing by an individual

850 QAR

— in case of filing by a student

100 QAR

— for the 16th year

— in case of filing by a company, or an educational or research institution

1,800 QAR

— in case of filing by an individual

900 QAR

— in case of filing by a student

100 QAR

— for the 17th year

— in case of filing by a company, or an educational or research institution

1,900 QAR

— in case of filing by an individual

950 QAR

— in case of filing by a student

100 QAR

— for the 18th to the 20th years

— in case of filing by a company, or an educational or research institution

per year 2,000 QAR

— in case of filing by an individual

per year 1,000 QAR

— in case of filing by a student

per year 100 QAR

Additional fee for late payment of annual fee

10% of the annual fee

Fee for grant and publication

— in case of filing by a company, or an educational or research institution

400 QAR

— in case of filing by an individual

200 QAR

— in case of filing by a student

50 QAR

Fee for amendment

— in case of filing by a company, or an educational or research institution

200 QAR

— in case of filing by an individual

100 QAR

— in case of filing by a student

50 QAR

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of fees should be effected in Qatari riyal. All payments must
indicate the application number (national, if already known; international, if
the national application number is not yet known), the name of the applicant
and the type of fee being paid

Payment of fees must be made at the Office

Forms

Please refer to the Office.

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a b The Office is competent only if the international search is or has
been carried out by that Office.  
2 ^ a This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  
3 ^ a Must be furnished within six months from the date of the invitation by
the Office.  

Change(s) as of 1 March 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

International filing fee:

Equivalent in QAR of 1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

Equivalent in QAR of 18 USD

  

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

Equivalent in QAR of 235 USD

  

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

Equivalent in QAR of 352 USD

  

Close

Current version applicable from 1 Mar 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

