####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
RO - Useful informationRO - International PhaseRO - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationRO - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeRO - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialRO - National PhaseRO - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseRO - The procedure in the national PhaseRO - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide RO - Romania  
State Office for Inventions and Trademarks (Romania)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **1 January 2024**

(published on 1 December 2023)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
RO: RO fees  
Annexes: Divers  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for RO - State Office for Inventions and Trademarks \(Romania\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: State Office for Inventions and Trademarks (Romania)

LPI: Law No 64/1991 on Patents, republished within the meaning of Article IV
of the Law No 28/2007 for amending and completing the Patent Law No 64/1991,
published in the Official Gazette of Romania, Part I, No 613 of 19 August 2014

RLP: Decision No 547 of 21 May 2008 for the approval of Regulations
Implementing Law No 64/1991 republished, published in the Official Gazette of
Romania, No 456 of 18 May 2008

OF: Ordinance No 41/1998 on Fees in the Field of Industrial Property and
Regulations Governing Their Use, republished within the meaning of Article IV
of the Law No 381/2005 for amending and completing Ordinance No 41/1998 on
Fees in the Field of Industrial Property and Regulations Governing Their Use,
published in the Official Gazette of Romania, Part I, No 6 of 6 January 2006

CCP: Romanian Code of Civil Procedure

List of currencies used in this document:

EUR (Euro), RON (New leu)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=RO).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Article 64(5)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Romania

Two-letter code:

[RO](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RO&doc-lang=EN)

Romania - State Office for Inventions and Trademarks (Romania)

Name of Office:

State Office for Inventions and Trademarks (Romania)

Location:

5 Ion Ghica Street  
030044  
Bucharest 3  
Romania

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(40-21) 306 08 00

E-mail:

office@osim.gov.ro

Website:

<http://www.osim.ro>

Facsimile:

(40-21) 312 38 19

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[RO](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RO&doc-lang=EN)

Romania - State Office for Inventions and Trademarks (Romania)

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Yes, filing restrictions apply to:  
Inventions made in Romania

Regulations on the Implementation of the Patent Law No. 64/1991 (approved by
Government Decision No. 547/2008 of 21 May 2008), Art. 4(3) and 7.

A national or resident of Romania must file an international application
concerning a subject matter of significance for national security directly
with the State Office for Inventions and Trademarks (Romania).

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: RO

European patent: EP

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents

Utility models (a utility model may be sought instead of or in addition to a
national patent)

European:

Patents

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a national patent:

The applicant may, from the date of publication in Romanian of the
international application, claim from any person who uses the subject of the
application, although the person knew, or should have known, that the
invention used by him was the subject of a published application, appropriate
compensation under the circumstances (refer to Art. 22, 33, 56(3) and (4) of
the Patent Law (Law No. 64/1991)).

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a European patent:

A published European patent application confers the protection mentioned above
as from the date on which a translation into Romanian of the claims of that
application is published by the Office (refer to Art. 5(2) of the Law No.
611/2002).

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

For national protection

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished later. If not already com-plied with
within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office
will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement until the decision to
grant the patent has been taken (Article 14(3) of Law No. 64/1991 on Patents,
republished).

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

For a European patent

Refer to [Annex B(EP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=ep&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Romania

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3).

English,

French,

German,

Romanian,

Russian

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

The Office has not specifically notified the International Bureau of the
language that it accepts under PCT Rule 12.1(d).

Same as above

Language in which the request may be filed:

English,

French,

German

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

3

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT

For the relevant notifications by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 12 September 2019, pages 134 et seq and 14 November 2019,
page 168.

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C
of the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
If the receiving Office does not accept international applications in
electronic form in such format, the international application will be
transmitted to the International Bureau as receiving Office (PCT Rule
19.4(a)(ii-_bis_)).

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, please refer to the Office for the applicable criteria and/or any fee
payable for such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

1,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

497 RON

International filing fee:

1,381 EUR

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

16 EUR

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

208 EUR

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

311 EUR

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(RU)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

copying costs, plus 99 RON

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Romania  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any industrial property agent resident in Romania whose name appears on the
register kept in the Office

Waiver of power of attorney:

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Refer to the Office

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Refer to the Office

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

None

— any additional indications:

None

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, all significant information on the
characteristics of the microorganism

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

If grant of a national patent by the State Office for Inventions and
Trademarks (Romania) is desired:

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or
39(1)

Romanian

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or
39(1)

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

For further details on the fee structure and applicable time limits, refer to
Annex RO.I of the National Chapter RO

Filing fee

30 EUR

Fee for priority claims

per priority 50 EUR

Examination fee

500 EUR

Annual fee for the first three years

150 EUR

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

For international applications entering the national phase the search fee is
reduced by 50%

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application 2 3

Statement justifying the applicant’s right to the patent if he is not the
inventor 3

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in Romania

Who can act as agent?

Any industrial property agent resident in Romania whose name appears on the
register kept in the Office

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, please refer to the Office for the applicable criteria and/or any fee
payable for such requests

If a European patent is desired: Refer to European Patent Organisation (EP) in
Annex B, Summary (EP) and national chapters EP and RO in the National Phase

##  The procedure in the national Phase

RO.01 FORM FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

RLP Art. 30(6)  
The Office has available a form for entering the national phase (refer to
Annex RO.II). This form should preferably (but need not) be used.

RO.02 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

LPI Art. 27,  RLP Art. 20(3)  
Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

RO.03 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex RO.I.

RO.04 ASSIGNMENT OF PRIORITY RIGHTS

RLP Art. 23(8)  
Where the priority of an earlier application is claimed and the applicant(s)
in that application is (are) not identical with the applicant(s) of the
international application, an assignment of the priority rights must be
furnished.

RO.05 POWER OF ATTORNEY

LPI Art. 13(4),  LPI Art. 37(1),  RLP Art. 22  
Any national or legal person resident in Romania whose name appears on the
register kept in the Office may be appointed by filing a power of attorney.

RO.06 FEE FOR GRANT AND PUBLICATION

OF Art. 11(1)  
This fee (refer to Annex RO.I) must be paid to the Office within 12 months
from the date of publication of the decision to grant the patent.

RO.07 ANNUAL FEES

OF Art. 11(1),  OF Art. 11(2),  OF Art. 11(5)  
The fees for maintaining the patent in force for each year up to grant under
Law No. 64/1991 republished, including the year of grant, shall be paid in one
installment together with the fee for grant, within 12 months from the date of
publication of the decision to grant. Payment for subsequent years must be
made in advance before each succeeding anniversary of the international filing
date. Payment can still be made, together with a 50% surcharge for late
payment, within six months after the expiration of that 12-month period. For
the amounts of the annual fees, refer to Annex RO.I.

RO.08 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  LPI Art. 26  
The applicant may make before the Office amendments to the description, claims
and drawing(s) of his own volition or when specifically required by the
Office, provided that the subject matter of the application is not broadened
thereby. Such amendments can be made up to the time of the receipt of the
notification of the decision to grant a patent.

RO.09 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51,  CCP Art. 299,  LPI Art. 51,  LPI Art. 52,  LPI
Art. 53,  LPI Art. 54,  LPI Art. 55,  LPI Art. 56,  LPI Art. 57  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. If, upon review under PCT Article 25, the Office denies an
error or an omission on the part of the receiving Office or the International
Bureau, an appeal against this decision may be lodged within three months from
the notification of the decision. A fee for appeal must be paid at the same
time. The Reexamination Commission of the Office will then decide on the
appeal.

RO.10 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2)  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.

##  Annexes

Annex RO.I - Fees

Filing fee

30 EUR

Fee for claiming priority

50 EUR

Publication fee:

— paid within six months of entry into the national phase

50 EUR

— paid on entry into the national phase

80 EUR

Search fee

50 EUR

Examination fee:

— paid within three months from the date of entering the national phase

500 EUR

— for each page in excess of 20

plus 10 EUR

— for each claim in excess of 5

plus 15 EUR

— paid after three months from the date of entering the national phase

300 EUR

— for each page in excess of 20

plus 5 EUR

— for each claim in excess of 5

plus 10 EUR

Printing and granting fee (payable within 12 months from the date of
publication of the decision):

100 EUR

— for each page in excess of 20

plus 5 EUR

Annual fee for maintaining the patent in force for each year of protection
from the filing date of the international application:

— for the 1st year

—

— for the 2nd year

—

— for the 3rd year

150 EUR

— for the 4th year

160 EUR

— for the 5th year

180 EUR

— for the 6th year

200 EUR

— for the 7th year

220 EUR

— for the 8th year

240 EUR

— for the 9th year

260 EUR

— for the 10th year

280 EUR

— for the 11th year

300 EUR

— for the 12th year

320 EUR

— for the 13th year

340 EUR

— for the 14th year

370 EUR

— for the 15th year

400 EUR

— for the 16th year

500 EUR

— for the 17th year

500 EUR

— for the 18th year

500 EUR

— for the 19th year

500 EUR

— for the 20th year

500 EUR

How can payment of fees be effected?

The national law provides for the periodical indexation of the amounts in
Romanian lei, the amounts in euros remaining unchanged, because of the daily
fluctuation, due to inflation, of the exchange rate of the Romanian leu
against the euro. Consequently, foreign applicants residing abroad must pay
the fees in euros

Payments may be made directly to the Office:

at the BCR S.A.  
Calea Plevnei nr. 159  
Bussiness Garden Bucureşti  
Clădirea A, et. 6, sect. 6  
Bucureşti

account details:

IBAN  
RO38RNCB0080005630320005

BIC (SWIFT CODE)  
RNCBROBU

fiscal code  
4266081

All payments made to this account are considered to have been made to the
Office on the date of credit to this account. Payments must indicate the
international application number or, if already known, the national
application number and indicate the category of the fee being paid

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex RO.II - National processing request
form](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_ro.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office.  
2 ^ a If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.  
3 ^ a b This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  

Change(s) as of 1 January 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental Organization

E-mail:

office@osim.gov.ro

  

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

Transmittal fee:

497 RON

  

International filing fee:

1,381 EUR

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

208 EUR

  

  
Annexes

How can payment of fees be effected?

The national law provides for the periodical indexation of the amounts in
Romanian lei, the amounts in euros remaining unchanged, because of the daily
fluctuation, due to inflation, of the exchange rate of the Romanian leu
against the euro. Consequently, foreign applicants residing abroad must pay
the fees in euros

Payments may be made directly to the Office:

at the BCR S.A.  
Calea Plevnei nr. 159  
Bussiness Garden Bucureşti  
Clădirea A, et. 6, sect. 6  
Bucureşti

account details:

IBAN  
RO38RNCB0080005630320005

BIC (SWIFT CODE)  
RNCBROBU

fiscal code  
4266081

All payments made to this account are considered to have been made to the
Office on the date of credit to this account. Payments must indicate the
international application number or, if already known, the national
application number and indicate the category of the fee being paid

  

Close

Current version applicable from 1 Jan 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

