####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
RS - Useful informationRS - International PhaseRS - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationRS - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeRS - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialRS - National PhaseRS - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseRS - The procedure in the national PhaseRS - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide RS - Serbia  
Intellectual Property Office (Serbia)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **25 April 2024**

(published on 25 April 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
GENERAL INFO: Payment methods  
RO: Electronic filing, Incorporation by reference  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase: National phase,
Restoration of the right of priority, Reinstatement of rights  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Jan 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for RS - Intellectual Property Office \(Serbia\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Intellectual Property Office (Serbia)

PL: The Patent Law, 2011, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2021

LR: Law Ratifying the PCT, 2004

LAP: Law on Administrative Procedures, 2016

RPL: Regulations under the Patent Law, 2019

List of currencies used in this document:

EUR (Euro), RSD (Serbian dinar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=RS).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Serbia

Two-letter code:

[RS](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RS&doc-lang=EN)

Serbia - Intellectual Property Office (Serbia)

Name of Office:

Intellectual Property Office (Serbia)

Location:

Knjeginje Ljubice 5  
11000 Beograd  
Serbia

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(381-11) 2025 800

E-mail:

zis@zis.gov.rs

Website:

<http://www.zis.gov.rs>

Facsimile:

(381-11) 311 23 77

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

provided that the delivery service furnishes proof of receipt

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[RS](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RS&doc-lang=EN)

Serbia - Intellectual Property Office (Serbia)

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: RS

European patent: EP

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents

Patents of addition

Petty patents

European:

Patents

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

The Office accepts the same payment methods irrespective of various PCT roles.
For fees to be paid in euros (when the Office is RO), the applicant receives
payment instructions from the Office.  
i) All fees must be paid to the Office  
ii) The majority of the national fees must be paid by money order, postal
transfer or bank transfer to budget account No. 840-30880845-62 (97 41-601)
reference No. 97, then code with control number of the municipality of the
Republic of Serbia. All payments should include the complete application
number, the name of the applicant and the type of fee being paid.

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a national patent:

Provisional protection shall be effective as from the date on which the
Serbian translation of the title of the invention and the abstract of the
international application are published by the Intellectual Property Office
(Serbia) (Articles 18 and 161 of the Patent Law, 2011).

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a European patent:

A published European patent application shall provisionally confer the
protection as conferred by a published national patent application under
Article 149 of the Patent Law as from the date on which a translation of the
published European patent application into the Serbian language has been
communicated by the applicant to the person using the invention in Serbia

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

For national protection

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or must be furnished within the time limit applicable
under PCT Article 22 or 39(1). If not already complied with within that time
limit, the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement
within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

For a European patent

Refer to [Annex B(EP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=ep&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Serbia

Language in which international applications may be filed:

English

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Same as above

Language in which the request may be filed:

English

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”)

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C
of the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

For the relevant notifications by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 22 February 2018, pages 196 _et seq._ and 21 July 2022,
page 188.

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

No. If submitted in color, the Office will convert drawings into black and
white.

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[XV](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=XV&doc-lang=EN)

Visegrad Patent Institute - Visegrad Patent Institute (VPI)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[XV](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=XV&doc-lang=EN)

Visegrad Patent Institute - Visegrad Patent Institute (VPI)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

8,210 RSD

This fee is reduced by 50% where the international application is filed by a
natural person

International filing fee:

1,381 EUR

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

16 EUR

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

208 EUR

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

311 EUR

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(XV)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

This fee is reduced by 50% where the international application is filed by a
natural person

— for the first document up to ten pages

1,970 RSD

— for each subsequent document up to ten pages

plus 490 RSD

— per page in excess of ten

plus 30 RSD

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

3,300 RSD

This fee is reduced by 50% where the international application is filed by a
natural person

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Serbia  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any person registered to practice as a patent agent before the Office, or any
attorney-at-law registered in Serbia

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Not applicable

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Not applicable

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

None

— any additional indications:

None

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, a description of the characteristics
of the micro-organism

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

If grant of a national patent by the Intellectual Property Office (Serbia) is
desired:

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

The time limit may be extended by 30 days, provided the applicant pays the
additional fee for late entry into the national phase

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes, the Office permits reinstatement of rights under the "due care"
criterion.

Fee for reinstatement

4,720 RSD

This fee is reduced by 50% where the application is filed by a natural person.

The Office shall render its decision to allow the reinstatement of rights
arising from the international application if the applicant, within the
prescribed period:  
1) files the request for the reinstatement of rights and completes all omitted
acts;  
2) states the reasons that have prevented the performance of the omitted acts
in due time, justifying them;  
3) submits proof of paid administrative fees.  
The request shall be filed within three months from the date on which grounds
for the omission ceased to exist or, if the applicant learned about the
omission subsequently, from the date on which the applicant found out about
the omission, but not later than 12 months from the date of non-observance of
the time limit.

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Serbian

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

Applicant should only send a copy of the international application if he/she
has not received Form PCT/IB/308 and the Office has not received a copy of the
international application from the International Bureau under PCT Article 20.
This may be the case where the applicant expressly requests an earlier start
of the national phase under PCT Article 23(2).

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

No, the Office does not accept color drawings under its national law. If
submitted in color, the Office will convert drawings into black and white.

National fees:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Patents

Filing fee 1

8,210 RSD

Claim fee for each claim in excess of 10 1

800 RSD

Additional fee for late entry into the national phase

50% of the filing fee

Examination fee 1

8,210 RSD

Annual fee for the first three years 1

11,510 RSD

Petty patents

Filing fee 1

8,210 RSD

Additional fee for late entry into the national phase

50% of the filing fee

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

Fees are reduced by 50% where the international application is filed by a
natural person (refer to Annex I).

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in Serbia

Instrument of assignment of the international application if the applicant has
changed after the international filing date and the change has not been
reflected in a notification from the International Bureau (Form PCT/IB/306)

Statement justifying the applicant’s right to the patent if he is not the
inventor 2

Document evidencing a change of name of the applicant if the change occurred
after the international filing date and has not been reflected in a
notification from the International Bureau (Form PCT/IB/306)

Translation of the international application to be furnished in three copies

Furnishing, where applicable, of a nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence
listing in electronic form

Who can act as agent?

Any person registered to practice as a patent agent before the Office, or any
attorney-at-law registered in Serbia

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

If a European patent is desired: Refer to European Patent Organisation (EP) in
Annex B

##  The procedure in the national Phase

RS.01 FORM FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

The Office has available a special form for entering the national phase (refer
to Annex RS.II). This form should preferably (but need not) be used.

RS.02 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

RS.03 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex RS.I.

RS.04 POWER OF ATTORNEY

An agent must be appointed by filing a power of attorney.

RS.05 ANNUAL FEES

PL Art. 40  
The first annual fee is payable for the third year following the international
filing date. Payment of the annual fees for subsequent years must be made
before the anniversary of the international filing date. If not made within
this time limit, payment may still be made, together with a 50% surcharge,
within six months after the due date. The amounts of the annual fees are
indicated in Annex RS.I.

RS.06 REQUEST FOR EXAMINATION

PL Art. 103  
A patent will be granted only after substantive examination which must be
requested. There is no special form for the request. If the applicant does not
file such a request, the application for the grant of the patent shall be
rejected.

RS.07

Examination must be requested within six months of the date of publication of
the search report.

RS.08

A request for examination is only effective if the examination fee has been
paid. The amount of this fee is indicated in Annex RS.I. If the examination
fee has not been paid within the time limit, payment can be made together with
a surcharge for late payment within 30 days from the receipt of the invitation
from the Office.

RS.09 PRIORITY DOCUMENT

PL Art. 90  
The priority document shall be submitted not later than up to the expiration
of the period of three months from the date of entry into the national phase
or 16 months from the earliest priority date claimed, whichever period expires
first.

RS.10 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  PL Art. 101  
The applicant may amend or correct the international application up to the
grant of a patent, provided that the scope of the subject matter of the
application is not extended. The applicant may not amend the description,
claims and drawing(s) before receipt of the search report. After receipt of
the search report, the applicant may, of his own volition, amend the
description, claims and drawing(s). Amended claims may not relate to
unsearched subject-matter which does not, combined with the invention as
originally claimed or the group inventions, form the single general inventive
concept for which protection had originally been sought.

RS.11 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2),  PCT Rule 82 _bis_  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.

RS.12

The time limits for entry into the national phase, requesting substantive
examination and payment of the substantive examination fee may be extended by
30 days on request and payment of a fee (refer to Annex RS.I).

RS.13

LAP Art. 93  
Restitutio in integrum may be requested where the applicant has missed a
procedural time limit for performing an act in relation to the international
application. The request for _restitutio in integrum_ must explain the
circumstances which caused the failure to comply with the time limit and at
least to make them probable. The request shall also be accompanied by the
document that was supposed to be submitted within the prescribed time limit
when the failure to submit the document on time was the reason for demanding
_restitutio in integrum_. The request must be submitted within eight days from
the day on which the circumstances which caused the delay ceased to exist, or,
where the party learned about its cessation only later, from the day the party
learned of it. A request for _restitutio in integrum_ is acceptable only up to
three months from the day when the delayed document or act was due.

RS.14

PL.Art. 73  
Reestablishment of Rights may be requested where the applicant has missed any
time limit for performing an act in relation to the international application,
resulting in the loss of rights arising from the application or granted right
as a legal consequence of such omission. The applicant must file a request for
the reestablishment of rights stating the reasons for the request, complete
all omitted acts, submit evidence in support of the reasons, submit proof of
fees payment for the request for the reestablishment of rights arising from
the application or granted right. The request for the reestablishment of
rights shall be filed within three months from the date on which grounds for
the omission ceased to exist or, if the person who requires reestablishment of
rights learned about the omission subsequently, from the date on which he
found out about the omission, but not later than 12 months from the date of
non-observance of the time limit or, if the request relates to the failure to
pay the maintenance fee, at least 12 months from the date of expiry of the
additional time limit for payment of this fee.

RS.15 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51,  PL Art. 67  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. In the case of a negative decision by the Office during the
national phase (including a request for review under PCT Article 25), the
applicant may appeal to the government within 15 days from the receipt of the
decision, except in certain cases, as provided by PL Art. 67. The government’s
decision is final but administrative dispute proceedings may be instituted
against such decision within 30 days from the date of receipt of the
government’s decision.

RS.16 PETTY PATENT

PL Art. 163,  PL Art. 39,  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1(a),  PCT Rule 76.5  
Subject to paragraph RS.19, if the applicant wishes to obtain, on the basis of
an international application, a petty patent instead of a patent, he shall so
indicate to the Office when performing the acts referred to in PCT Article 22
or 39. Petty patents may only be granted in respect of the structure of a
product or layout of the components described in the application. The term of
protection for a petty patent is 10 years from the international filing date
of the application.

RS.17

PL Art. 164  
The national requirements for petty patents are basically the same as those
for patents. However, petty patents are not examined as to novelty, inventive
step and industrial applicability.

RS.18

PL Art. 163  
A petty patent may contain only one independent claim and up to four dependent
claims.

RS.19 CONVERSION

PL Art. 166  
An international application for a patent may be converted into an application
for a petty patent, and _vice versa_ , at any time before the grant of the
patent, by filing a request to that effect and paying the relevant fees (refer
to Annex RS.I).

##  Annexes

Annex RS.I - Fees

Patents

Filing fee 1

8,210 RSD

Claim fee for each claim in excess of 10 1

800 RSD

Additional fee for late entry into the national phase

50% of the filing fee

Search fee (if there is no international search report) 1

16,470 RSD

Examination fee 1

8,210 RSD

Surcharge for late filing of request for examination 1

4,940 RSD

Annual fees: 1 3

— for the 3rd year, counted from the international filing date

11,510 RSD

— for the 4th year, counted from the international filing date

13,980 RSD

— for the 5th year, counted from the international filing date

16,470 RSD

— for the 6th year, counted from the international filing date

19,730 RSD

— for the 7th year, counted from the international filing date

23,010 RSD

— for the 8th year, counted from the international filing date

26,320 RSD

— for the 9th year, counted from the international filing date

29,620 RSD

— for the 10th year, counted from the international filing date

32,920 RSD

— for the 11th year, counted from the international filing date

39,530 RSD

— for the 12th year, counted from the international filing date

46,110 RSD

— for the 13th year, counted from the international filing date

52,700 RSD

— for the 14th year, counted from the international filing date

59,260 RSD

— for the 15th year, counted from the international filing date

65,840 RSD

— for the 16th year, counted from the international filing date

72,440 RSD

— for the 17th year, counted from the international filing date

79,020 RSD

— for the 18th year, counted from the international filing date

85,600 RSD

— for the 19th year, counted from the international filing date

92,180 RSD

— for the 20th year, counted from the international filing date

98,760 RSD

Fee for restoration of the right of priority 1

3,300 RSD

Fee for re-establishment of rights 1

4,100 RSD

Petty patents

Filing fee 1

8,210 RSD

Additional fee for late entry into the national phase

50% of the filing fee

Annual fees: 1

— for the 3rd year, counted from the international filing date

11,510 RSD

— for the 4th year, counted from the international filing date

13,980 RSD

— for the 5th year, counted from the international filing date

16,470 RSD

— for the 6th year, counted from the international filing date

19,730 RSD

— for the 7th year to the 10th year, counted from the international filing
date

per year 23,010 RSD

Fee for request of conversion of patent application into petty patent
application, and _vice versa_ 1

3,300 RSD

Fee for extension of time limit 1

— for the first request up to 30 days

1,660 RSD

— for every subsequent request, for every month

2,470 RSD

How can payment of fees be effected?

(i) All fees must be paid to the Office

(ii) The majority of the national fees must be paid by money order, postal
transfer or bank transfer to budget account No. 840-30880845-62 (97 41-601)
reference No. 97, then code with control number of the municipality of the
Republic of Serbia. All payments should include the complete application
number, the name of the applicant and the type of fee being paid

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex RS.II - National processing request
form](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_rs.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q This fee is reduced by 50% where the
international application is filed by a natural person.  
2 ^ a This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  
3 ^ a The first annual fee is payable for the third year following the
international filing date. Payment of the annual fees for subsequent years
must be made before the anniversary of the international filing date. If not
made within this time limit, payment may still be made, together with a 50%
surcharge, within six months after the due date.  

Change(s) as of 25 April 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental Organization

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

The Office accepts the same payment methods irrespective of various PCT roles.
For fees to be paid in euros (when the Office is RO), the applicant receives
payment instructions from the Office.  
i) All fees must be paid to the Office  
ii) The majority of the national fees must be paid by money order, postal
transfer or bank transfer to budget account No. 840-30880845-62 (97 41-601)
reference No. 97, then code with control number of the municipality of the
Republic of Serbia. All payments should include the complete application
number, the name of the applicant and the type of fee being paid.

  

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

  

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

  

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

No. If submitted in color, the Office will convert drawings into black and
white.

  

  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes, the Office permits reinstatement of rights under the "due care"
criterion.

Fee for reinstatement

4,720 RSD

This fee is reduced by 50% where the application is filed by a natural person.

The Office shall render its decision to allow the reinstatement of rights
arising from the international application if the applicant, within the
prescribed period:  
1) files the request for the reinstatement of rights and completes all omitted
acts;  
2) states the reasons that have prevented the performance of the omitted acts
in due time, justifying them;  
3) submits proof of paid administrative fees.  
The request shall be filed within three months from the date on which grounds
for the omission ceased to exist or, if the applicant learned about the
omission subsequently, from the date on which the applicant found out about
the omission, but not later than 12 months from the date of non-observance of
the time limit.

  

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

No, the Office does not accept color drawings under its national law. If
submitted in color, the Office will convert drawings into black and white.

  

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

  

Close

Current version applicable from 25 Apr 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

