####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * ISA
  * SISA
  * IPEA
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
RU - Useful informationRU - International PhaseRU - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationRU - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeRU - Annex D - International Searching AuthorityRU - Annex SISA -
International Searching Authority (Supplementary Search)RU - Annex E -
International Preliminary Examining AuthorityRU - Annex L - Deposits of
Microorganisms and Other Biological MaterialRU - National PhaseRU - Summary of
requirements for entry into the national phaseRU - The procedure in the
national PhaseRU - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide RU - Russian Federation  
Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent) (Russian Federation)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **1 March 2024**

(published on 24 February 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
RO: RO fees  
IPEA: IPEA fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Oct 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 1 Dec 2023, 1 Jan 2024, 1 Feb 2024,
Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for RU - Federal Service for Intellectual Property \(Rospatent\) \(Russian
Federation\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent) (Russian
Federation)

RCC: Civil Code of the Russian Federation 1

Rules: Rules for the preparation, filing and examination of documents that are
the basis for carrying out legally significant actions on the State
registration of inventions, and their forms 2

REQ: Requirements for patent application documents for an invention 2

SF: Statute on Fees for Patents, Utility Models, Industrial Designs,
Trademarks, Service Marks, Appellations of Origin 1

List of currencies used in this document:

CHF (Swiss franc), EUR (Euro), RUB (Russian rouble), USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=RU).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Article 64(5)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Russian Federation

Two-letter code:

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

Name of Office:

Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent) (Russian Federation)

Location:

_General_ :  
ROSPATENT  
Berezhkovskaya nab. 30/1  
Moscow 125993  
Russian Federation

 _Application processing_ :  
Federalny Institut Promyshlennoi Sobstvennosti  
Berezhkovskaya nab.  
30/1  
Moscow 125993  
Russian Federation

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

_General_ :  
(7-499) 240 60 15

 _Application processing_ :  
(7-499) 240 58 88  
(7-499) 240 25 91

E-mail:

_General_ :  
icd@rospatent.gov.ru

 _RO_ :  
ro-ru@rupto.ru

 _ISA/SISA/IPEA_ :  
pct-peo@rupto.ru

Website:

<http://www.rospatent.gov.ru>  
<http://www1.fips.ru>

Facsimile:

(7-495) 531 63 18

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes, within 14 days from the date of the transmission, if the transmitted
document is the international application or a replacement sheet containing
corrections or amendments of the international application

No, only upon invitation in the case of other documents

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

Yes

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

provided that the delivery service is:

DHL

Federal Express or

any other service which is recognized worldwide and is available in the
Russian Federation

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[EA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EA&doc-lang=EN)

Eurasian Patent Organization - Eurasian Patent Office (EAPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Civil Code of the Russian Federation, Article 1395, available at:  
<http://www.rospatent.gov.ru>

Yes

Filing restrictions apply to:

Inventions made in the Russian Federation

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: RU

Eurasian patent: EA

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents

Utility models

Eurasian:

Patents

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

Paragraph 14.13, Annex 1 of the Regulations on Patent and other fees for
committing legally significant actions related to a patent for an invention,
utility model, industrial design, state registration of a trademark and
service mark, state registration and grant of the exclusive right to
appellation of origin, as well as state registration of alienation of the
exclusive right to a result of intellectual activity or means of
individualization, pledge of the exclusive right, granting the right to use
such result or such means under a contract, non-contracted transfer of the
exclusive right to such result or such means (refer to
<https://rospatent.gov.ru/content/uploadfiles/pril_1_2_941.pdf>)

Provisional protection after international publication:

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a national patent:

From the time of the international publication (if in Russian) or, where that
publication was in a language other than Russian, then from the time of the
publication of the translation of that application into Russian by the Federal
Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent) (Russian Federation), the
applicant is entitled to provisional protection in conformity with the
national legislation (refer to Articles 1392 and 1396(3) of the Civil Code).

The Civil Code of the Russian Federation is available at:  
<http://www.rospatent.gov.ru>

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a Eurasian patent:

After the international publication (if in Russian) or, where that publication
was in a language other than Russian, after the publication by the EAPO of the
translation into Russian of the international application, the applicant is
entitled to provisional protection in conformity with the national
legislation.

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

For national protection

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If the data concerning the inventor are missing at the
expiration of the time limit under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will
invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit of two
months from the date of receipt of the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

For a Eurasian patent

Refer to [Annex B(EA)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=EA&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Russian Federation

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3).

English,

Russian

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

The Office has not specifically notified the International Bureau of the
language that it accepts under PCT Rule 12.1(d).

Same as above

Language in which the request may be filed:

English,

Russian

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

2

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 7 January 2016, pages 4 _et seq._

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C
of the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
If the receiving Office does not accept international applications in
electronic form in such format, the international application will be
transmitted to the International Bureau as receiving Office (PCT Rule
19.4(a)(ii-_bis_)).

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies both the “unintentional” and the “due care” criteria
to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EA&doc-lang=EN)

Eurasian Patent Organization - Eurasian Patent Office (EAPO)

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EA&doc-lang=EN)

Eurasian Patent Organization - Eurasian Patent Office (EAPO)

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

3,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee: 4

1,700 RUB

International filing fee: 4

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30: 4

18 USD

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

235 USD

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

352 USD

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EA)  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(RU)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)): 5

1,700 RUB

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)): 5

1,000 RUB

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No

Who can act as agent?

Any natural or legal person resident in the Russian Federation

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Where an agent or a common representative who is not indicated on the request
form at the time of filing performs any action after filing; or in case of
doubt as to the agent’s entitlement to act.

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Where an agent or a common representative who is not indicated in the request
form at the time of filing performs any action after filing; or in case of
doubt as to the agent’s entitlement to act.

##  Annex D - International Searching Authority

International Searching Authority competent for the following Receiving
Offices:

[AM](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AM&doc-lang=EN)

Armenia - Intellectual Property Office of the Republic of Armenia

,

[AZ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AZ&doc-lang=EN)

Azerbaijan - Intellectual Property Agency of the Republic of Azerbaijan

,

[BG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BG&doc-lang=EN)

Bulgaria - Patent Office of the Republic of Bulgaria

,

[BY](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BY&doc-lang=EN)

Belarus - National Center of Intellectual Property (Belarus)

,

[CO](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CO&doc-lang=EN)

Colombia - Superintendence of Industry and Commerce (Colombia)

,

[CU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CU&doc-lang=EN)

Cuba - Cuban Industrial Property Office

,

[EA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EA&doc-lang=EN)

Eurasian Patent Organization - Eurasian Patent Office (EAPO)

,

[GE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=GE&doc-lang=EN)

Georgia - National Intellectual Property Center of Georgia (SAKPATENTI)

,

[ID](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ID&doc-lang=EN)

Indonesia - Directorate General of Intellectual Property (Indonesia)

,

[IR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IR&doc-lang=EN)

Iran (Islamic Republic of) - Intellectual Property Center (Islamic Republic of
Iran)

,

[KG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KG&doc-lang=EN)

Kyrgyzstan - State Agency of Intellectual Property and Innovation under the
Cabinet of Ministers of the Kyrgyz Republic (Kyrgyzpatent)

,

[KP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KP&doc-lang=EN)

Democratic People's Republic of Korea - Intellectual Property Administration
(IPA) of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea

,

[KZ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KZ&doc-lang=EN)

Kazakhstan - National Institute of Intellectual Property (NIIP) (Kazakhstan)

,

[MA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MA&doc-lang=EN)

Morocco - Moroccan Office of Industrial and Commercial Property (OMPIC)

,

[MD](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MD&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Moldova - State Agency on Intellectual Property (Republic of
Moldova)

,

[MN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MN&doc-lang=EN)

Mongolia - Intellectual Property Office of Mongolia

,

[OA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=OA&doc-lang=EN)

African Intellectual Property Organization - African Intellectual Property
Organization (OAPI)

,

[RO](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RO&doc-lang=EN)

Romania - State Office for Inventions and Trademarks (Romania)

,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

,

[SA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SA&doc-lang=EN)

Saudi Arabia - Saudi Authority for Intellectual Property (SAIP)

,

[SY](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SY&doc-lang=EN)

Syrian Arab Republic - Ministry of Internal Trade and Consumer Protection,
Directorate of Industrial and Commercial Property Protection (Syrian Arab
Republic)

,

[TJ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TJ&doc-lang=EN)

Tajikistan - National Center for Patents and Information under the Ministry of
Economic Development and Trade of the Republic of Tajikistan

,

[TM](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TM&doc-lang=EN)

Turkmenistan - State Service for Intellectual Property of the Ministry of
Finance and Economy of Turkmenistan

,

[UZ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=UZ&doc-lang=EN)

Uzbekistan - Intellectual Property Agency under the Ministry of Justice of the
Republic of Uzbekistan

,

[VN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=VN&doc-lang=EN)

Viet Nam - Intellectual Property Office of Viet Nam (IP Viet Nam)

,

[ZW](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ZW&doc-lang=EN)

Zimbabwe - Zimbabwe Intellectual Property Office

Search fee (PCT Rule 16):

This fee applies to searches carried out in Russian

79 CHF

86 EUR

8,500 RUB

94 USD

This fee applies to searches carried out in English

370 CHF

406 EUR

40,000 RUB

441 USD

This fee is payable to the receiving Office in the currency or one of the
currencies accepted by it.

Additional search fee (PCT Rule 40.2): 6

This fee applies to searches carried out in Russian

RUB 8,500

This fee applies to searches carried out in English

RUB 40,000

Fee for copies of documents cited in the international search report (PCT Rule
44.3): 7

— for a patent document

per page 24 RUB

— for a non-patent document

per page 60 RUB

How to obtain copies:

The applicant receives, together with the international search report, a copy
of each document containing non-patent literature cited in the report, free of
charge.

Applicants and designated (elected) Offices can request copies by e-mail at:  
pct-peo@rupto.ru

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.1 _ter_):

per page 96 RUB

Protest fee (PCT Rule 40.2(e)): 6

3,500 RUB

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rule 13 _ter_.1(c)): 6

4,000 RUB

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the search fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded

Where the international application is withdrawn or is considered withdrawn,
under PCT Article 14(1), (3) or (4), before the start of the international
search:  
refund of 100%

Where the Authority benefits from an earlier search, carried out in respect of
an earlier application by the Authority itself or by another International
Searching Authority, depending upon the extent to which the Authority benefits
from that earlier search:  
refund of 25% to 75%

Languages accepted for international search:

English,

Russian

Does the Authority accept informal comments on earlier search results where an
international application claims priority from an earlier application already
searched by this Authority?

No

Types of physical media accepted for the furnishing of nucleotide and/or amino
acid sequence listings:

CD-ROM, CD-R, DVD, DVD-R

Subject matter that will not be searched:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 39.1 with the
exception of any subject matter searched under the patent grant procedure in
accordance with the provisions of the patent law of the Russian Federation

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Where an agent or a common representative who is not indicated on the request
form at the time of filing performs any action after filing; or in case of
doubt as to the agent’s entitlement to act.

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Where an agent or a common representative who is not indicated in the request
form at the time of filing performs any action after filing; or in case of
doubt as to the agent’s entitlement to act.

##  Annex SISA - International Searching Authority (Supplementary Search)

Fees payable to the International Bureau:

For further details on the payment of fees to the International Bureau, refer
to the WIPO website at:  
<http://www.wipo.int/pct/en/fees/special.html>

Supplementary search fee (PCT Rule 45 _bis_.3): 8

109 CHF

— where a declaration referred to in PCT Article 17(2)(a) has been made by the
International Searching Authority because of subject matter referred to in PCT
Rule 39.1(iv) (methods of treatment)

175 CHF

Supplementary search handling fee (PCT Rule 45 _bis_.2):

200 CHF

Late payment fee (PCT Rule 45 _bis_.4(c)):

100 CHF

Fees payable to the Authority: 9

Fee for copies of documents cited in the supplementary international search
report (PCT Rule 45 _bis_.7(c)):

— for a patent document

per page 24 RUB

— for a non-patent document

per page 60 RUB

The applicant receives, together with the supplementary international search
report, a copy of each document cited therein, free of charge

Applicants and designated (elected) Offices can request copies by e-mail at:  
pct-peo@rupto.ru

Review fee (PCT Rule 45 _bis_.6(c)):

4,200 RUB

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.1 _ter_):

per page 96 RUB

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rules 13 _ter_.1(c) and 45 _bis_.5(c)):

4,000 RUB

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the supplementary search fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded

The International Bureau shall refund this fee where the supplementary search
request has not yet been transmitted to the Authority and the international
application is withdrawn or considered withdrawn, or the supplementary search
request is withdrawn or considered not to have been submitted (refer to PCT
Rule 45 _bis_.3(d)):  
refund of 100%

The Authority shall refund this fee where work has not yet started and the
supplementary search request is considered not to have been submitted (refer
to PCT Rule 45 _bis_.3(e)):  
refund of 100%

Languages accepted for supplementary international search:

English,

Russian

Subject matter that will not be searched:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 39.1, with the
exception of any subject matter searched under the patent grant procedure in
accordance with the provisions of the patent law of the Russian Federation

Scope of documentation included in the supplementary international search:

The exact scope of the searches is subject to confirmation by the Authority

The Authority shall include at least the Russian-language and certain other
patent documents of the former Soviet Union and CIS States held in its search
collection

Where a declaration referred to in PCT Article 17(2)(a) has been made by the
International Searching Authority because of subject matter referred to in PCT
Rule 39.1(iv) (methods of treatment), the Authority shall include PCT minimum
documentation and at least the Russian-language and certain other patent
documents of the former Soviet Union and CIS States held in its search
collection

Limitations on supplementary international search:

None

Types of physical media accepted for the furnishing of nucleotide and/or amino
acid sequence listings:

CD-ROM, CD-R, DVD, DVD-R

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Where an agent or a common representative who is not indicated on the request
form at the time of filing performs any action after filing; or in case of
doubt as to the agent’s entitlement to act

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Where an agent or a common representative who is not indicated on the request
form at the time of filing performs any action after filing; or in case of
doubt as to the agent’s entitlement to act

##  Annex E - International Preliminary Examining Authority

International Preliminary Examining Authority competent for the following
Receiving Offices:

[AM](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AM&doc-lang=EN)

Armenia - Intellectual Property Office of the Republic of Armenia

,

[AZ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AZ&doc-lang=EN)

Azerbaijan - Intellectual Property Agency of the Republic of Azerbaijan

,

[BG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BG&doc-lang=EN)

Bulgaria - Patent Office of the Republic of Bulgaria

,

[BY](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BY&doc-lang=EN)

Belarus - National Center of Intellectual Property (Belarus)

,

[CO](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CO&doc-lang=EN)

Colombia - Superintendence of Industry and Commerce (Colombia)

,

[CU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CU&doc-lang=EN)

Cuba - Cuban Industrial Property Office

,

[EA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EA&doc-lang=EN)

Eurasian Patent Organization - Eurasian Patent Office (EAPO)

,

[GE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=GE&doc-lang=EN)

Georgia - National Intellectual Property Center of Georgia (SAKPATENTI)

,

[ID](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ID&doc-lang=EN)

Indonesia - Directorate General of Intellectual Property (Indonesia)

,

[IR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IR&doc-lang=EN)

Iran (Islamic Republic of) - Intellectual Property Center (Islamic Republic of
Iran)

,

[KG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KG&doc-lang=EN)

Kyrgyzstan - State Agency of Intellectual Property and Innovation under the
Cabinet of Ministers of the Kyrgyz Republic (Kyrgyzpatent)

,

[KP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KP&doc-lang=EN)

Democratic People's Republic of Korea - Intellectual Property Administration
(IPA) of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea

,

[KZ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KZ&doc-lang=EN)

Kazakhstan - National Institute of Intellectual Property (NIIP) (Kazakhstan)

,

[MA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MA&doc-lang=EN)

Morocco - Moroccan Office of Industrial and Commercial Property (OMPIC)

,

[MD](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MD&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Moldova - State Agency on Intellectual Property (Republic of
Moldova)

,

[MN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MN&doc-lang=EN)

Mongolia - Intellectual Property Office of Mongolia

,

[OA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=OA&doc-lang=EN)

African Intellectual Property Organization - African Intellectual Property
Organization (OAPI)

,

[RO](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RO&doc-lang=EN)

Romania - State Office for Inventions and Trademarks (Romania)

,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

,

[SA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SA&doc-lang=EN)

Saudi Arabia - Saudi Authority for Intellectual Property (SAIP)

,

[SY](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SY&doc-lang=EN)

Syrian Arab Republic - Ministry of Internal Trade and Consumer Protection,
Directorate of Industrial and Commercial Property Protection (Syrian Arab
Republic)

,

[TJ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TJ&doc-lang=EN)

Tajikistan - National Center for Patents and Information under the Ministry of
Economic Development and Trade of the Republic of Tajikistan

,

[TM](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TM&doc-lang=EN)

Turkmenistan - State Service for Intellectual Property of the Ministry of
Finance and Economy of Turkmenistan

,

[UZ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=UZ&doc-lang=EN)

Uzbekistan - Intellectual Property Agency under the Ministry of Justice of the
Republic of Uzbekistan

,

[VN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=VN&doc-lang=EN)

Viet Nam - Intellectual Property Office of Viet Nam (IP Viet Nam)

,

[ZW](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ZW&doc-lang=EN)

Zimbabwe - Zimbabwe Intellectual Property Office

Preliminary examination fee (PCT Rule 58):

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority. For
further details, refer to “How can payment of fees be effected” at:  
<http://www1.fips.ru/wps/wcm/connect/content_en/en/inter/>

— examination carried out in:

Russian 6,750 RUB

English 24,000 RUB

Where the international search report was prepared by the Federal Service for
Intellectual Property (Rospatent) (Russian Federation)

— examination carried out in:

Russian 4,500 RUB

English 16,000 RUB

Additional preliminary examination fee (PCT Rule 68.3):

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority and
only in particular circumstances. For further details, refer to “How can
payment of fees be effected” at:  
<http://www1.fips.ru/wps/wcm/connect/content_en/en/inter/>

— examination carried out in:

Russian 6,000 RUB

English 23,500 RUB

Where the international search report was prepared by the Federal Service for
Intellectual Property (Rospatent) (Russian Federation)

— examination carried out in:

Russian 5,000 RUB

English 19,500 RUB

Handling fee (PCT Rule 57.1):

235 USD

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority. It
is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)). For
further details, refer to “How can payment of fees be effected” at:  
<http://www1.fips.ru/wps/wcm/connect/content_en/en/inter/>

Fee for copies of documents cited in the international preliminary examination
report (PCT Rule 71.2): 7

— for a patent document

per page 24 RUB

— for a non-patent document

per page 60 RUB

How to obtain copies:

The applicant receives, together with the international preliminary
examination report a copy of each document containing non-patent literature
not cited in the international search report, free of charge

Applicants and elected Offices can request copies by e-mail at:  
pct-peo@rupto.ru

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.2): 7

per page 96 RUB

Protest fee (PCT Rule 68.3(e)):

3,500 RUB

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority and
only in particular circumstances. For further details, refer to “How can
payment of fees be effected” at:  
<http://www1.fips.ru/wps/wcm/connect/content_en/en/inter/>

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rule 13 _ter_.2):

4,000 RUB

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority and
only in particular circumstances. For further details, refer to “How can
payment of fees be effected” at:  
<http://www1.fips.ru/wps/wcm/connect/content_en/en/inter/>

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the preliminary examination fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded

In the cases provided for under PCT Rule 58.3:  
refund of 100%

If the international application or the demand is withdrawn before the start
of the international preliminary examination:  
refund of 100%

Languages accepted for international preliminary examination:

English,

Russian

Subject matter that will not be examined:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 67.1 with the
exception of any subject matter examined under the patent grant procedure in
accordance with the provisions of the patent law of the Russian Federation

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Where an agent or a common representative who is not indicated on the request
form at the time of filing performs any action after filing; or in case of
doubt as to the agent’s entitlement to act.

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Where an agent or a common representative who is not indicated in the request
form at the time of filing performs any action after filing; or in case of
doubt as to the agent’s entitlement to act.

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

None

— any additional indications:

None

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, relevant information on the
characteristics of the microorganism

Additional information

Deposits may also be made for the purposes of patent procedure before the
Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent) (Russian Federation)
with any depositary institution.

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(3): 31 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or
39(1). If not already complied with within this time limit, the Office will
invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit fixed
in the invitation

Russian

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or
39(1). If not already complied with within this time limit, the Office will
invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit fixed
in the invitation

In certain circumstances, the Office is entitled to require both the
translation of the international application as originally filed and as
amended; in such a case, the Office will invite the applicant to supply the
missing translation

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, as originally filed or
as amended, if the applicant wishes the amendments to form the basis for the
proceedings, together with any statement under PCT Article 19 ), any text
matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, as originally filed or as
amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report, if
the applicant wishes the amendments to form the basis for the proceedings)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

Patents

Filing fee

3,300 RUB

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Examination fee:

Where the request for substantive examination is filed upon entry into the
national phase

— for one independent claim

12,500 RUB

— for each independent claim in excess of one

9,200 RUB

Annual fee for the 3rd year

1,700 RUB

Utility models

Filing fee

1,400 RUB

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Annual fee for the 1st and the 2nd year

per year 800 RUB

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

The examination fee shall be reduced by :  
— 50% where the international search report has been established by the
Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent) (Russian Federation), or  
— 10% where the international search report has been established by any of the
other International Searching Authorities

The annual fees shall be reduced by:  
— 50% where a notice about an open license is filed with the Office  
The reduction shall apply as from the year following the year of publication
of information on the notice

The filing fee, the examination fee and the reinstatement fee shall be reduced
by:  
— 30% where the application and all required documents are filed online

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in the Russian
Federation

Who can act as agent?

Any patent attorney registered to practice before the Office

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

RU.01 FORMS FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

The Office has available two special forms for entering the national phase
(refer to Annexes RU.II and RU.III). These forms should preferably (but need
not) be used. If they are used, the translation of the PCT request is not
required.

RU.02 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

RU.03 REPRESENTATION

RCC Art. 1247  
Applicants having their residence outside the territory of the Russian
Federation must appoint patent agents registered to practice with the Office.
A list of registered patent agents is available upon request from the Office.

RU.04 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

RCC Art. 1249,  SF 1  
The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex RU.I.

RU.05 REQUEST FOR EXAMINATION

RCC Art. 1386,  RCC Art. 1389,  Rules Rule 34,  SF 1.9  
A patent is granted only after examination as to patentability which may be
requested by the applicant or by a third party. There is no special form for
the request. Examination must be requested within three years from the
international filing date. The time limit may be extended for not more than
two months on filing a request prior to the expiration of three years from the
international filing date. The request for examination is only effective if a
fee for requesting examination has been paid. The expired time limit for the
request for examination may be reinstated within 12 months on payment of the
reinstatement fee accompanied by a statement on the valid excuse for
expiration. The amount of the said fee is indicated in Annex RU.I. It is
reduced where an international search report has been established.

RU.06 FEE FOR GRANT

RCC Art. 1393,  SF 1.18,  SF 1.19  
A fee for grant must be paid within four months after dispatch to the
applicant of the decision to grant the patent. Where the applicant fails to
pay the fee within that time limit, he can make this payment, together with a
50% surcharge for late payment, within six months from the date of expiration
of the above mentioned time limit.

RU.07 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  PCT Rule 78.1,  RCC Art. 1378  
Within a month after entry into the national phase the applicant has the right
to amend any element of his application, including claims, without paying any
fee for that purpose, provided that the amendments do not modify the subject
matter of the application beyond the original disclosure. After the expiration
of the said time limit claims may be amended on the applicant’s own initiative
after the receipt of the search report and the payment of the prescribed fees
(refer to Annex RU.I) or when specifically required by the examiner. All
amendments shall be made prior to the final decision on a patent application.

RU.08 ANNUAL FEES

SF 1.21  
After a patent has been granted, annual fees must be paid for maintaining the
patent in force. They are payable for the third and each subsequent year
following the international filing date for patents and for the first and each
subsequent year for utility models. For the due date of the payment of the
first annual fees, refer to the Summary. After that, annual fees become due
every year on the anniversary of the international filing date. Payment can
still be made, upon payment of a 50% surcharge for late payment, within six
months from the date of expiration of the prescribed time limit. If the patent
lapses following failure to pay the annual fee within the prescribed time
limit, the reinstatement of rights is permitted within three years from the
date of the expiry of this time limit if the applicant makes a written request
for the reinstatement of rights and pays the reinstatement fee. The amount of
the reinstatement fee is 2.5 times greater than the amount of the annual fee
for the year of the submission of the request. The amounts of annual fees are
indicated in Annex RU.I.

RU.09 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. If, upon review under PCT Article 25, the Office denies an
error or omission on the part of the receiving Office or the International
Bureau, an appeal against this decision may be lodged with the Office.

RU.10 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2),  PCT Rule 82 _bis_ ,  RCC Art. 1382,  RCC
Art. 1396  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase. Where,
during the international phase or before the Office, the applicant has missed
a time limit for performing any act in relation to the international
application, such time limit may be extended by the Office upon request by the
applicant and subject to payment of the reinstatement fee (refer to Annex
RU.I).

RU.11

PCT Rule 49.6  
Reinstatement may be requested where the applicant failed to comply with the
time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1) for entering the national
phase The application may be reinstated if the Office finds that the failure
to meet that time limit occurred in spite of due care required by the
circumstances having been taken. A request for reinstatement must be presented
within 12 months from the expiry of the time limit and is subject to the
payment of a fee (refer to Annex RU.I).

RU.12 UTILITY MODEL

PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1,  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1(a),  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1(b),  PCT
Rule 76.5,  RCC Art. 1390  
If the applicant wishes to obtain a utility model registration instead of a
patent on the basis of an international application, subject to what is said
in paragraph 13, the applicant, when performing the acts referred to in PCT
Article 22 or 39, shall so indicate to the Office. If the international
application is for a utility model instead of a patent, the requirements are
basically the same as for an invention except that the applicant is not
required to make a request for substantive examination.

RU.13

SF 1.18,  SF 1.19,  SF 1.21  
The first annual fee must be paid jointly with the grant fee (refer to Annex
RU.I).

RU.14 CONVERSION

RCC Art. 1379,  Rules Rule 3(15),  SF 1.12,  SF 1.13  
The applicant may, prior to publication of a patent application, but not later
than the decision to grant is taken, convert the said application into a
utility model application by filing a request to that effect. The utility
model application may be converted into a patent application at any time
before the decision to grant is taken. The conversion is subject to payment of
a fee. The converted application shall have the priority date of the initial
application.

RU.15 NUCLEOTIDE AND AMINO ACID SEQUENCES

REQ Rule 11  
Where the international application contains disclosure of one or more
nucleotide and/or amino acid sequences, the applicant must furnish a sequence
listing presented as a separate part of the description and a sequence listing
in electronic form.

##  Annexes

Annex RU.I - Fees

Patents

Filing fee

3,300 RUB

— claims fee for each claim in excess of ten

700 RUB

This fee shall be reduced by 30% where the application and all required
documents are filed online

— claims fee for each claim that has not been searched by the International
Searching Authority

700 RUB

Search fee (where a request for search has been accepted and the fee has been
paid, a search report is transmitted within 7 months):

— for one independent claim:

9,500 RUB

— for each independent claim in excess of one

6,200 RUB

Examination fee:

This fee shall be reduced by 30% where the application and all required
documents are filed online

— where the request for substantive examination is filed upon entry into the
national phase:

In this case a search report is transmitted within 7 months from the date of
the start of substantive examination

— for one independent claim:

12,500 RUB

— for each independent claim in excess of one

9,200 RUB

— where the request for substantive examination is filed after entry into the
national phase:

In this case a search report is transmitted within 12 months from the date of
the start of substantive examination

— for one independent claim

4,700 RUB

— for each independent claim in excess of one, but not more than five

2,800 RUB

— for each independent claim in excess of five

5,400 RUB

— where the request for substantive examination is filed after receipt of a
search report and payment of the corresponding search fee has been made:

3,000 RUB

Fee for reinstatement of rights of the applicant with respect to an
international application where the applicant failed to comply with the
requirement of Article 22 or 39(1)

5,000 RUB

Reinstatement fee in other cases

2,100 RUB

This fee shall be reduced by 30% where the application and all required
documents are filed online

Fee for new claims:

— for each new claim before the start of substantive examination

700 RUB

— for each new claim after the start of substantive examination

4,700 RUB

Grant fee

1,500 RUB

Annual fees:

The annual fees shall be reduced by 50% where a notice about an open license
is filed with the Office. The reduction shall apply as from the year following
the year of publication of information on the notice

— for the 3rd year

1,700 RUB

— for the 4th year

1,700 RUB

— for the 5th year

2,500 RUB

— for the 6th year

2,500 RUB

— for the 7th year

3,300 RUB

— for the 8th year

3,300 RUB

— for the 9th year

4,900 RUB

— for the 10th year

4,900 RUB

— for the 11th year

7,300 RUB

— for the 12th year

7,300 RUB

— for the 13th year

9,800 RUB

— for the 14th year

9,800 RUB

— for the 15th to the 18th year

per year 12,200 RUB

— for the 19th year

16,200 RUB

— for the 20th year

16,200 RUB

— for the 21st and each subsequent year

24,000 RUB

Fee for restoration of the right of priority

1,000 RUB

Utility models

Filing fee

1,400 RUB

— claim fee for each claim in excess of 10

700 RUB

Examination fee

2,500 RUB

Grant fee

1,500 RUB

Annual fees:

The annual fees shall be reduced by 50% where a notice about an open license
is filed with the Office. The reduction shall apply as from the year following
the year of publication of information on the notice

— for the 1st year

800 RUB

— for the 2nd year

800 RUB

— for the 3rd year

1,700 RUB

— for the 4th year

1,700 RUB

— for the 5th year

2,500 RUB

— for the 6th year

2,500 RUB

— for the 7th and 8th years

3,300 RUB

— for the 9th and 10th years

4,900 RUB

How can payment of fees be effected?

_Fees_

The payment of fees must be effected in Russian roubles. All payments must
indicate the application number (national, if already known; international, if
the national application number is not yet known), the name of the applicant
and the category of fee being paid. Fees may be paid to the following bank
account:

Beneficiary Name  
Interregional Operation Office of the Federal Treasury (Federal Service for
Intellectual Property)

Beneficiary’s Bank Account Number  
03100643000000019500

Name of the beneficiary’s bank at the Central Bank of Russia  
Operational Department of the Russian Bank/Interregional Operation Office of
the Federal  
Treasury  
Moscow

BIC (Bank Identifier Code)  
024501901

Beneficiary’s Bank Correspondent Account  
40102810045370000002

VO Code  
VO70010

Beneficiary Taxpayer identification Number (INN)  
7730176088

Beneficiary Tax Registration Reason Code (KPP)  
773001001

UIP  
0

For further details on the payment of fees, refer to the Rospatent website at:  
<https://rospatent.gov.ru/>

_Charges_

The payment of charges must be effected in Russian roubles. All payments must
indicate the application number (national, if already known; international, if
the national application number is not yet known), the name of the applicant
and the category of fee being paid

For further details on the payment of charges, refer to the Rospatent website
at:  
<https://rospatent.gov.ru/ru/activities/inter/coop/wipo/pct/phase/duties>

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex RU.II - National processing request form for
patents](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_ru.pdf)

[Annex RU.III - National processing request form for utility
models](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_ru.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a b These texts are available at <http://www.rospatent.gov.ru>  
2 ^ a b These texts are available at
<https://rospatent.gov.ru/ru/docs/regulations>  
3 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office.  
4 ^ a b c This fee is payable to the receiving Office. For further details,
refer to the Rospatent website
at:<https://rospatent.gov.ru/ru/activities/inter/coop/wipo/pct/phase/duties>  
5 ^ a b This fee is payable to the receiving Office. For further details,
refer to items 4.9 and 4.11 in the table at
<https://rospatent.gov.ru/ru/activities/dues/table> and the bank account
details at <https://rospatent.gov.ru/content/uploadfiles/pr_44_pril_1.pdf>  
6 ^ a b c This fee is payable to the International Searching Authority and
only in particular circumstances. For further details, refer to“How can
payment of fees be effected” at
www1.fips.ru/wps/wcm/connect/content_en/en/inter/  
7 ^ a b c This fee is payable to the Authority. For further details, refer to
<http://new.fips.ru/vse-uslugi/uslugi-predostavlyaemye-fips-na-platnoy-
osnove-.php> (paragraph 14.6) and <http://new.fips.ru/vse-uslugi/rekvizity-
fips-dlya-oplaty-uslug-fips-okazyvaemykh-na-platnoy-osnove.php>  
8 ^ a This fee is fixed by the Authority in RUB and will be revised from time
to time to reflect currency fluctuations between RUB and CHF.  
9 ^ a For further details on the payment of fees to the Authority, refer to
the Rospatent website at: <http://new.fips.ru/vse-uslugi/uslugi-
predostavlyaemye-fips-na-platnoy-osnove-.php> and <http://new.fips.ru/vse-
uslugi/rekvizity-fips-dlya-oplaty-uslug-fips-okazyvaemykh-na-platnoy-
osnove.php>  

Change(s) as of 1 March 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental Organization

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

Paragraph 14.13, Annex 1 of the Regulations on Patent and other fees for
committing legally significant actions related to a patent for an invention,
utility model, industrial design, state registration of a trademark and
service mark, state registration and grant of the exclusive right to
appellation of origin, as well as state registration of alienation of the
exclusive right to a result of intellectual activity or means of
individualization, pledge of the exclusive right, granting the right to use
such result or such means under a contract, non-contracted transfer of the
exclusive right to such result or such means (refer to
<https://rospatent.gov.ru/content/uploadfiles/pril_1_2_941.pdf>)

  

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

  

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

235 USD

  

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

352 USD

  

  
Annex E - International Preliminary Examining Authority

Handling fee (PCT Rule 57.1):

235 USD

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority. It
is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)). For
further details, refer to “How can payment of fees be effected” at:  
<http://www1.fips.ru/wps/wcm/connect/content_en/en/inter/>

  

Close

Current version applicable from 1 Mar 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

