####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
RW - Useful informationRW - International PhaseRW - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationRW - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeRW - National PhaseRW - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseRW - The procedure in the national PhaseRW - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide RW - Rwanda  
Office of the Registrar General (Rwanda)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **15 September 2023**

(published on 15 September 2023)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
From now on, you will find here a summary of changes to each new version of
the PCT Applicant's Guide, as well as the detailed list of these changes.
Moreover, you can now easily access the historical versions of the Guide.  
  
  

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for RW - Office of the Registrar General \(Rwanda\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Office of the Registrar General (Rwanda)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=RW).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Rwanda

Two-letter code:

[RW](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RW&doc-lang=EN)

Rwanda - Office of the Registrar General (Rwanda)

Name of Office:

Office of the Registrar General (Rwanda)

Location:

Corner Blvd de l’Umuganda (Airport Rd)  
Nyarutarama Road  
P.O. Box 6239  
Kigali  
Rwanda

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(250) 252 58 03 38

E-mail:

blaise.ruhima@rdb.rw  
louise.kanyonga@rdb.rw

Website:

<http://www.rdb.rw>  
<http://www.org.rdb.rw>

Facsimile:

None

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

Yes

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[AP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AP&doc-lang=EN)

African Regional Intellectual Property Organization - African Regional
Intellectual Property Organization (ARIPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[RW](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RW&doc-lang=EN)

Rwanda - Office of the Registrar General (Rwanda)

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: RW

ARIPO protection: AP

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents

Utility models

ARIPO: 1

Patents

Utility models (a utility model may be sought instead of or in addition to an
ARIPO patent)

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

Article 33 (Law on the Protection of Intellectual Property)

Provisional protection after international publication:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished later. If not already complied with
within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office
will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit
of two months from the date of the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

No

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Information not yet available

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Information not yet available

##  The procedure in the national Phase

Information not yet available

##  Annexes

Annex RW.I - Fees

Information not yet available

Forms

Please refer to the Office.

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a For international applications filed on or after 24 September 2011.  

Change(s) as of 15 September 2023 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference.
Mouse hover the text to consult previous value)

Close

Current version applicable from 15 Sep 2023 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

