####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
SA - Useful informationSA - International PhaseSA - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationSA - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeSA - National PhaseSA - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseSA - The procedure in the national PhaseSA - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide SA - Saudi Arabia  
Saudi Authority for Intellectual Property (SAIP)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **25 April 2024**

(published on 26 April 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
GENERAL INFO: Payment methods  
RO: Electronic filing, Incorporation by reference  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase: National phase,
Restoration of the right of priority, Reinstatement of rights  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 1 Jan 2024, 1 Mar 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for SA - Saudi Authority for Intellectual Property \(SAIP\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Saudi Authority for Intellectual Property (SAIP)

Law: Law of July 16, 2004 on Patents, Layout Designs of Integrated Circuits,
Plant Varieties, and Industrial Designs

Regulations: Implementing Regulations of the Law of July 16, 2004

List of currencies used in this document:

SAR (Saudi Riyal), USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=SA).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Friday and Saturday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Saudi Arabia

Two-letter code:

[SA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SA&doc-lang=EN)

Saudi Arabia - Saudi Authority for Intellectual Property (SAIP)

Name of Office:

Saudi Authority for Intellectual Property (SAIP)

Location:

As Sahafah  
Olaya St. 6531  
3059  
Riyadh 13321  
Saudi Arabia

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(966-11) 280 59 76  
(966-11) 280 59 84

E-mail:

pct@saip.gov.sa

Website:

<http://www.saip.gov.sa>

Facsimile:

None

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by e-mail

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes,

within 14 days from the date of the invitation

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

Yes

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

provided that the delivery service is:  
Aramex  
DHL  
Federal Express  
TNT  
UPS  
Another registered delivery service

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[SA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SA&doc-lang=EN)

Saudi Arabia - Saudi Authority for Intellectual Property (SAIP)

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[SA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SA&doc-lang=EN)

Saudi Arabia - Saudi Authority for Intellectual Property (SAIP)

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Patents

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

The payment of fees should be effected in Saudi riyal. All payments must
indicate the application number (national, if already known; international, if
the national application number is not yet known), the name of the applicant
and the type of fee being paid

Payments should be made by bank transfer to the following bank:

ALINMA BANK  
Riyadh  
Saudi Arabia

IBAN  
SA8105000068224248888000

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished later. If the indications concerning
the inventor are missing at the expiration of the time limit under PCT Article
22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit of 90 days from the date of the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

No

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Saudi Arabia

Language in which international applications may be filed:

Depending on the applicant’s choice of competent International Searching
Authority, a translation into a corresponding language (refer to Annex D) may
have to be furnished by the applicant (PCT Rule 12.3)

Arabic,

English

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Same language as the international application (Arabic or English)

Language in which the request may be filed:

Arabic,

English

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notifications by the Office, refer to Official Notices (PCT
Gazette) dated 22 January 2015, pages 13 _et seq._ and 4 August 2022, page
209.

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

No

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies both the “due care” and the “unintentional” criteria
to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[CA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CA&doc-lang=EN)

Canada - Canadian Intellectual Property Office

,

[CN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CN&doc-lang=EN)

China - China National Intellectual Property Administration (CNIPA)

,

[EG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EG&doc-lang=EN)

Egypt - Egyptian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[JP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JP&doc-lang=EN)

Japan - Japan Patent Office (JPO)

,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

,

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[CA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CA&doc-lang=EN)

Canada - Canadian Intellectual Property Office

1,

[CN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CN&doc-lang=EN)

China - China National Intellectual Property Administration (CNIPA)

1,

[EG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EG&doc-lang=EN)

Egypt - Egyptian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

1,

[JP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JP&doc-lang=EN)

Japan - Japan Patent Office (JPO)

1,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

,

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

1,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

1

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

100 USD

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

235 USD

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

352 USD

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(CA)  
Annex D(EG)  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(JP)  
Annex D(KR)  
Annex D(RU)  
Annex D(SG)  
Annex D(US)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

100 USD

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

534 USD

— applicable in case of filing by an individual

276 USD

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Saudi Arabia  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any attorney or lawyer registered in Saudi Arabia

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Not applicable

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

[NO](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=NO&doc-lang=EN)

Norway - Norwegian Industrial Property Office

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes, the Office permits reinstatement under the “due care” criterion.

Fee for reinstatement

2,000 SAR

(1,000 SAR)

The amount in parentheses is applicable in case of filing by individuals.

The applicant must submit a petition which includes justifications for non-
compliance and payment of the fee.

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or
39(1)

Arabic

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or
39(1)

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

A copy is required only if the Office has not received a copy of the
international application from the International Bureau under PCT Article 20.
This may be the case where the applicant expressly requests an earlier start
of the national phase under PCT Article 23(2) or 40(2).

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

Yes, the Office accepts color drawings under its national law. Drawings shall
be clear and of high quality for duplication.

National fees:

Must be furnished within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or
39(1)

The amount in parentheses is applicable in case of filing by individuals

Filing fee

800 SAR

(400) SAR

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

Reductions of the national fee are indicated under “National fee” above.

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

Name and address of the inventor if not indicated in the “Request” part of the
international application 2 3

Declaration as to the applicant’s entitlement to apply for and be granted a
patent 2 3

Declaration as to the applicant’s entitlement to claim priority of the earlier
application 2 3

Document evidencing a change of name of the applicant if the change occurred
after the international filing date and has not been reflected in a
notification from the International Bureau (Form PCT/IB/306) 2

Representation by an agent if the applicant is not resident in Saudi Arabia 2

Instrument appointing the agent (authorization or power of attorney) 2

Furnishing, where applicable, of a nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence
listing in electronic form

Who can act as agent?

Any attorney or lawyer registered in Saudi Arabia

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies both the “unintentional” and the “due care” criteria
to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

SA.01 FORM FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

There is no special form for entry into the national phase. It is strongly
recommended that the national phase application be filed through the Office’s
electronic filing system at <https://epatentsso.saip.gov.sa/>

SA.02 LANGUAGE OF PROCEEDINGS

The language of proceedings is Arabic.

SA.03 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as originally
filed (refer to National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

SA.04 TRANSLATION (CONTENTS)

Regulations Art. 12  
Any scientific terms should be expressed in the original language of the
international application together with the Arabic translation when used for
the first time. Subsequently, the Arabic only should be included, except for
the claims, where the term shall be indicated in both languages.

For abbreviations in foreign languages, the full name, in both Arabic and
English, shall be indicated when used for the first time in the text.
Subsequently, the abbreviation only shall be used.

The same Arabic term for a Latin word shall be used when the Latin term recurs
in the text.

Symbols, units, names and basic physical constants approved by the
International Union for Pure and Applied Physics (IUPAP), the SUNAMCO
Commission, published in the Union Document No. 25 shall be used.

Latin letters shall be used in accordance with the International Union for
Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) System for writing structural figures and
chemical formulae, symbols of chemical elements, compounds and names. If a
chemical name appears in the title it shall be written in both Arabic and
Latin.

References, research papers, articles and scientific books shall be written in
their original language.

SA.05 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex SA.I.

SA.06 ANNUAL FEES

Law Art. 18  
Annual fees are payable at the beginning of each year starting from the year
following the filing date. In case of failure to pay a fee within the required
time limit, the payment may be made within an additional time limit of three
months, in which case, however, the fee is doubled. If the fee is not paid
within the additional time limit of three months, the application or the
patent will cease to have effect and this will be published in the Gazette.
The amounts of the annual fees are indicated in Annex SA.I.

SA.07 APPOINTMENT OF AN AGENT

If the applicant is not resident in Saudi Arabia, an agent shall be appointed
by filing a power of attorney, signed by the applicant.

SA.08 EXAMINATION

Regulations Art. 35(2)  
Substantive examination must be requested and fees must be paid within three
months.

SA.09 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION

Law Art. 9  
The applicant may, at any time before the patent is granted, make amendments
to his application, provided that the amendment does not go beyond the
original disclosure. The amount of the fee for amendment is indicated in Annex
SA.I.

SA.10 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2),  PCT Rule 82 _bis_  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.

SA.11 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase.

SA.12 REINSTATEMENT OF RIGHTS

PCT Rule 49.6  
Reinstatement of rights may be requested where the applicant, in spite of due
care required by the circumstances having been taken, failed to perform the
acts referred to in Article 22 within the applicable time limit. A request for
reinstatement must be presented in writing within two months from the removal
of the cause of the failure to observe the time limit or 12 months from the
date of expiration of the applicable time limit, whichever time limit expires
earlier. Within the said two months, the omitted action must be completed.

##  Annexes

Annex SA.I - Fees

The amount in parentheses is applicable in case of filing by individuals

Filing fee

800 SAR

(400 SAR)

Examination fee

Please refer to the Office

Fee for amendment

200 SAR

(100 SAR)

Grant and publication fee

1,000 SAR

(500 SAR)

Fee for reinstatement of rights

2,000 SAR

(1,000 SAR)

Fee for restoration of the right of priority

2,000 SAR

(1,000 SAR)

Annual fees:

— for the 1st year

500 SAR

(250 SAR)

— for the 2nd year

1,000 SAR

(500 SAR)

— for the 3rd year

1,500 SAR

(750 SAR)

— for the 4th year

2,000 SAR

(1,000 SAR)

— for the 5th year

2,500 SAR

(1,250 SAR)

— for the 6th year

3,000 SAR

(1,500 SAR)

— for the 7th year

3,500 SAR

(1,750 SAR)

— for the 8th year

4,000 SAR

(2,000 SAR)

— for the 9th year

4,500 SAR

(2,250 SAR)

— for the 10th year

5,000 SAR

(2,500 SAR)

— for the 11th year

5,500 SAR

(2,750 SAR)

— for the 12th year

6,000 SAR

(3,000 SAR)

— for the 13th year

6,500 SAR

(3,250 SAR)

— for the 14th year

7,000 SAR

(3,500 SAR)

— for the 15th year

7,500 SAR

(3,750 SAR)

— for the 16th year

8,000 SAR

(4,000 SAR)

— for the 17th year

8,500 SAR

(4,250 SAR)

— for the 18th year

9,000 SAR

(4,500 SAR)

— for the 19th year

9,500 SAR

(4,750 SAR)

— for the 20th year

10,000 SAR

(5,000 SAR)

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of fees should be effected in Saudi riyal. All payments must
indicate the application number (national, if already known; international, if
the national application number is not yet known), the name of the applicant
and the type of fee being paid

Payments should be made by bank transfer to the following bank

ALINMA BANK  
Riyadh  
Saudi Arabia

IBAN  
SA8105000068224248888000

Forms

Please refer to the Office.

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a b c d e f The Office is competent only if the international search is or
has been carried out by that Office.  
2 ^ a b c d e f If not already complied with within the time limit applicable
under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply
with the requirement within a time limit of three months from the date of
receipt of the invitation.  
3 ^ a b c This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration
has been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  

Change(s) as of 25 April 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental Organization

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

The payment of fees should be effected in Saudi riyal. All payments must
indicate the application number (national, if already known; international, if
the national application number is not yet known), the name of the applicant
and the type of fee being paid

Payments should be made by bank transfer to the following bank:

ALINMA BANK  
Riyadh  
Saudi Arabia

IBAN  
SA8105000068224248888000

  

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

  

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

  

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

No

  

  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes, the Office permits reinstatement under the “due care” criterion.

Fee for reinstatement

2,000 SAR

(1,000 SAR)

The amount in parentheses is applicable in case of filing by individuals.

The applicant must submit a petition which includes justifications for non-
compliance and payment of the fee.

  

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

Yes, the Office accepts color drawings under its national law. Drawings shall
be clear and of high quality for duplication.

  

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

  

Close

Current version applicable from 25 Apr 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

