####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
SD - Useful informationSD - International PhaseSD - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationSD - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeSD - National PhaseSD - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseSD - The procedure in the national PhaseSD - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide SD - Sudan  
Registrar General of Intellectual Property Department (Sudan)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **15 September 2023**

(published on 15 September 2023)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
From now on, you will find here a summary of changes to each new version of
the PCT Applicant's Guide, as well as the detailed list of these changes.
Moreover, you can now easily access the historical versions of the Guide.  
  
RO: Languages, Electronic filing  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for SD - Registrar General of Intellectual Property Department \(Sudan\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Registrar General of Intellectual Property Department (Sudan)

PA: Patents Act 1971

PR: Patent Regulations 1981

List of currencies used in this document:

CHF (Swiss franc), SDG (Sudanese pound)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=SD).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Friday and Saturday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Sudan

Two-letter code:

[SD](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SD&doc-lang=EN)

Sudan - Registrar General of Intellectual Property Department (Sudan)

Name of Office:

Registrar General of Intellectual Property Department (Sudan)

Location:

Elgomhouria Street  
Elmogran Area  
Khartoum  
Sudan

Mailing address:

P.O. Box 744  
Khartoum  
Sudan

Telephone:

(249-155) 12 68 62  
(249-183) 74 23 58

E-mail:

epct.info@ipsudan.gov.sd

Website:

<http://www.ipsudan.gov.sd>

Facsimile:

(249-183) 74 23 56

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[AP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AP&doc-lang=EN)

African Regional Intellectual Property Organization - African Regional
Intellectual Property Organization (ARIPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[SD](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SD&doc-lang=EN)

Sudan - Registrar General of Intellectual Property Department (Sudan)

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: SD

ARIPO protection: AP

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents

ARIPO:

Patents

Utility models (a utility model may be sought instead of or in addition to an
ARIPO patent)

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

For national protection

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished later. If not already com-plied with
within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office
will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit
fixed in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

No

For an ARIPO patent

Refer to [Annex B(AP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=AP&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Sudan

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3).

Arabic,

English

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

The Office has not specifically notified the International Bureau of the
language that it accepts under PCT Rule 12.1(d).

Same as above

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

3

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

As from 15 January 2021. For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to
the Official Notices (PCT Gazette) dated 29 October 2020, pages 226 _et seq._

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C
of the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
If the receiving Office does not accept international applications in
electronic form in such format, the international application will be
transmitted to the International Bureau as receiving Office (PCT Rule
19.4(a)(ii-_bis_)).

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, please refer to the Office for the applicable criteria and/or any fee
payable for such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EG&doc-lang=EN)

Egypt - Egyptian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EG&doc-lang=EN)

Egypt - Egyptian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

1

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

50 SDG

International filing fee:

Equivalent in SGD of 1,330 CHF

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

Equivalent in SGD of 15 CHF

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

Equivalent in SGD of 200 CHF

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

Equivalent in SGD of 300 CHF

Search fee:

Equivalent in SDG of the search fee payable to the International Searching
Authority chosen by the applicant:  
Refer to  
Annex D(EG)  
Annex D(EP)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

None

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in the Sudan. An address for service in the Sudan
is required for non-residents

Who can act as agent?

Lawyers authorized to work in the Sudan under the Legal Profession Act 1983,
or any other substitute Act

Chartered accountants authorized to work in the Sudan

Nationals of the Sudan graduated from a Sudanese university or in possession
of an equivalent degree

Any Sudanese national with at least five years’ experience in the field of
patents

Waiver of power of attorney:

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Refer to the Office

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Refer to the Office

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Arabic,

English

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, as amended only,
together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any text matter of drawings

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings (if
any of those parts has been amended, only as amended by the annexes to the
international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Filing fee

50 SDG

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

The list of special requirements is still subject to confirmation by the
Office

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application 2

Address for service in the Sudan (but no representation by an agent is
required)

Who can act as agent?

Lawyers authorized to work in the Sudan under the Legal Profession Act 1983,
or any other substitute Act

Chartered accountants authorized to work in the Sudan

Nationals of the Sudan graduated from a Sudanese university or in possession
of an equivalent degree

Any Sudanese national with at least five years’ experience in the field of
patents

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, please refer to the Office for the applicable criteria and/or any fee
payable for such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

SD.01 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

SD.02 LANGUAGE OF PROCEEDINGS

PR Rule 9  
The language of proceedings is one of the official languages (Arabic or
English). Where necessary, the Office may authorize the applicant to use a
foreign language. If the foreign language is not comprehensible to the Office,
the latter may request that the applicant furnishes a translation into Arabic
or English.

SD.03 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

PA Sec. 16  
The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex SD.I.

SD.04 POWER OF ATTORNEY

PA Sec. 12(3)  
An agent must be appointed by filing a power of attorney. A model is given in
Annex SD.II.

SD.05 ANNUAL FEES

PA Sec. 25,  PR Rule 6(2)  
After a patent has been granted a fee must be paid for maintaining the patent
in force. The fee is due by the anniversary of the date of grant of the
patent. Where the applicant failed to pay by that date, payment can still be
made, together with a surcharge for late payment, within the six months
following the due date. Payment must be made together with an application for
renewal on Form No. 6, which appears in Annex SD.III. The amount of the annual
fees is indicated in Annex SD.I.

SD.06 PUBLICATION FEE

PR Rule 7  
A fee for publication in the Official Gazette must be paid after receipt by
the applicant of the notification to grant the patent within a time limit
fixed in the notification. The amount of the said fee is indicated in Annex
SD.I.

SD.07 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  PR Rule 15  
The following modifications to the application may be made during the national
phase, provided that the scope of the subject matter of the application is not
broadened thereby:

(i) up to the decision to grant a patent: amendments to any part of the
application;

PR Rule 15  
(ii) at any time (even after the grant of the patent): correction of written
errors; if the applicant is responsible for such an error, the correction is
subject to the payment of a fee (refer to Annex SD.I).

SD.08 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. If, upon review under PCT Article 25, the Office denies an
error or omission on the part of the receiving Office or the International
Bureau, an appeal against this decision may be lodged within 15 days from the
date of receipt of the decision. An extension of the 15-day time limit may be
requested. The Province Court of Khartoum will then decide on the appeal.

SD.09 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2)  
Where the applicant failed to comply with a time limit during the
international phase or before the Office and non observance of the time limit
is detrimental to his rights, he may request restoration of his rights or
request the Office to waive the requirement which was not observed. Such a
request must be presented to the Office in writing, indicate the reasons for
missing the time limit and be accompanied by evidence in support of the
statements made.

##  Annexes

Annex SD.I - Fees

National (filing) fee

50 SDG

Publication fee

15 SDG

Annual fee per year

10 SDG

Surcharge for late payment of annual fee

20 SDG

Fee for correction of errors

20 SDG

How can payment of fees be effected?

Fees must be paid in Sudanese Pounds to the Central Bank of Sudan, account of
Registrar General of  
Intellectual Property Department (Sudan).

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex SD.II - Power of
attorney](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_sd.pdf)

[Annex SD.III - Form No 6 (Application for
renewal)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_sd.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office.  
2 ^ a This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  

Change(s) as of 15 September 2023 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference.
Mouse hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

The Office has not specifically notified the International Bureau of the
language that it accepts under PCT Rule 12.1(d).

Same as above

  

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

As from 15 January 2021. For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to
the Official Notices (PCT Gazette) dated 29 October 2020, pages 226 _et seq._

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C
of the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
If the receiving Office does not accept international applications in
electronic form in such format, the international application will be
transmitted to the International Bureau as receiving Office (PCT Rule
19.4(a)(ii-_bis_)).

  

Close

Current version applicable from 15 Sep 2023 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

