####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * ISA
  * SISA
  * IPEA
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
SE - Useful informationSE - International PhaseSE - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationSE - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeSE - Annex D - International Searching AuthoritySE - Annex SISA -
International Searching Authority (Supplementary Search)SE - Annex E -
International Preliminary Examining AuthoritySE - Annex L - Deposits of
Microorganisms and Other Biological MaterialSE - National PhaseSE - Summary of
requirements for entry into the national phaseSE - The procedure in the
national PhaseSE - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide SE - Sweden  
Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **11 April 2024**

(published on 12 April 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
GENERAL INFO: Payment methods  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase: Reinstatement of
rights  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Oct 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 1 Jan 2024, 1 Apr 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for SE - Swedish Intellectual Property Office \(PRV\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV)

SPL: Patents Act (Sweden)

SPD: Patents Decree (Sweden)

List of currencies used in this document:

CHF (Swiss franc), DKK (Danish krone), EUR (Euro), ISK (Icelandic krona), NOK
(Norwegian krone), SEK (Swedish krona), USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=SE).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Article 64(2)(a)(ii), Rule 23 _bis_.2(b), Rule 23 _bis_.2(e)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Sweden

Two-letter code:

[SE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SE&doc-lang=EN)

Sweden - Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV)

Name of Office:

Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV)

Location:

Valhallavägen 136  
Stockholm  
Sweden

Mailing address:

P.O. Box 5055  
S-102 42 Stockholm  
Sweden

Telephone:

(46-8) 782 28 00

E-mail:

prv@prv.se

Website:

<http://www.prv.se>

Facsimile:

(46-8) 666 02 86

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

No, only upon invitation

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Does the Office excuse delays in meeting time limits due to the unavailability
of electronic means of communication (PCT Rule 82 _quater_.2(a))?

Yes, the Office excuses delays in meeting time limits where the permitted
electronic means of communication were unavailable at least one whole day (24
hours) and where the respective action was performed on the next working day
on which the said electronic means of communication were available

For the relevant notification by the Office refer to the Official Notices (PCT
Gazette) dated 25 June 2020, page 139

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

Yes, the Office is prepared to allow applicants to make international and
national applications available to the WIPO DAS

For further details on how to request this Office to make applications
available to DAS, refer to <https://www.prv.se/en/ip-
professional/patents/digital-access-service-das/>

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[SE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SE&doc-lang=EN)

Sweden - Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV)

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

The Defence Inventions Act, Section 4

Yes, filing restrictions apply to:

Inventions made in Sweden

Applications by residents

Inventions owned by Swedish companies

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: SE

European patent: EP

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents

European:

Patents

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

The payment of fees has to be effected in Swedish kronor. All payments must
indicate the national application number (however, if that number is not yet
known, the international application number may be used), the name of the
applicant and the category of fee being paid

Payment may be effected:

(i) by e-service for electronic payments at:  
<http://www.prv.se>

(ii) by deposit account at the Office

(iii) by Bankgiro to 5050-0248

Payments made outside Sweden should be effected by transfer to:  
Danske Bank Sverige  
Norrmalmstorg 1  
Box 7523  
103 92 Stockholm

IBAN  
SE 6912 000 0000 1281 011 1758

BIC/Swift  
DABASESX

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

Section 9 of the Patents Act and

Section 5 of the Decree implementing that Act

Provisional protection after international publication:

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a national patent:

After international publication, the furnishing of a translation into Swedish
or English or, if the international application was filed in Swedish or
English, of a copy of the application as filed, gives the applicant
provisional protection in the sense that he, upon grant of the patent, is
entitled to damages. These are limited to what is judged reasonable in the
circumstances and the protection is limited to what is claimed in both the
application and the patent. Refer to Sections 33, 58 and 60 of the Patents
Act.

For further details, refer to paragraph SE.02 of the National Chapter SE

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a European patent:

Compensation reasonable in the circumstances, on condition that any national
requirements relating to the translation into Swedish of the claims of the
application have been met, and upon grant of the patent. Protection is limited
to what is claimed in both the application and the patent (refer to Section 88
of the Patents Act).

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

For national protection

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished later. If not already complied with
within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)(a), the Office
will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit
fixed in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

For a European patent

Refer to [Annex B(EP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=ep&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Sweden

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3). If the language
in which the international application is filed is not a language of
publication and no translation is required for the purposes of international
search (PCT Rule 12.3(a)), the applicant will have to furnish a translation of
the application into English (PCT Rule 12.4(a))

Danish,

English,

Finnish,

Norwegian,

Swedish

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Danish,

English,

Finnish,

Norwegian,

Swedish,

or English and another filing language accepted by the Office

Language in which the request may be filed:

English

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts XML and PDF files filed using ePCT-Filing or EPO
Online Filing

For the relevant notifications by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 31 May 2018, pages 244 _et seq._ and 21 July 2022, page
189.

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C
of the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format. Documents should preferably not be password protected.

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

Yes

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Offfice applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[SE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SE&doc-lang=EN)

Sweden - Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV)

,

[XN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=XN&doc-lang=EN)

Nordic Patent Institute - Nordic Patent Institute

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[SE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SE&doc-lang=EN)

Sweden - Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV)

,

[XN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=XN&doc-lang=EN)

Nordic Patent Institute - Nordic Patent Institute

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

1,200 SEK

International filing fee:

15,990 SEK

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

180 SEK

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

2,410 SEK

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

3,610 SEK

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(SE)  
Annex D(XN)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

— if requested under PCT Rule 17.1(b)

None

— if requested outside of PCT Rule 17.1(b)

250 SEK

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

1,000 SEK

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Sweden  
May be required if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any natural or legal person

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent or a common
representative who was not indicated in the request form at the time of filing

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent or a common
representative who was not indicated in the request form at the time of filing

##  Annex D - International Searching Authority

International Searching Authority competent for the following Receiving
Offices:

[AP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AP&doc-lang=EN)

African Regional Intellectual Property Organization - African Regional
Intellectual Property Organization (ARIPO)

,

[BR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BR&doc-lang=EN)

Brazil - National Institute of Industrial Property (Brazil)

,

[DK](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=DK&doc-lang=EN)

Denmark - Danish Patent and Trademark Office

,

[FI](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=FI&doc-lang=EN)

Finland - Finnish Patent and Registration Office (PRH)

,

[GH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=GH&doc-lang=EN)

Ghana - Registrar General's Department (Ghana)

,

[IN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IN&doc-lang=EN)

India - Indian Patent Office

,

[IS](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IS&doc-lang=EN)

Iceland - Icelandic Intellectual Property Office (ISIPO)

,

[KE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KE&doc-lang=EN)

Kenya - Kenya Industrial Property Institute

,

[LR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=LR&doc-lang=EN)

Liberia - Liberia Intellectual Property Office (LIPO)

,

[MA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MA&doc-lang=EN)

Morocco - Moroccan Office of Industrial and Commercial Property (OMPIC)

,

[MX](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MX&doc-lang=EN)

Mexico - Mexican Institute of Industrial Property

,

[NO](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=NO&doc-lang=EN)

Norway - Norwegian Industrial Property Office

,

[OA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=OA&doc-lang=EN)

African Intellectual Property Organization - African Intellectual Property
Organization (OAPI)

,

[SE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SE&doc-lang=EN)

Sweden - Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV)

,

[TT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TT&doc-lang=EN)

Trinidad and Tobago - Intellectual Property Office, Office of the Attorney
General and Ministry of Legal Affairs (Trinidad and Tobago)

,

[VN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=VN&doc-lang=EN)

Viet Nam - Intellectual Property Office of Viet Nam (IP Viet Nam)

,

[ZM](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ZM&doc-lang=EN)

Zambia - Patents and Companies Registration Agency (PACRA) (Zambia)

Search fee (PCT Rule 16):

1,751 CHF

13,750 DKK

1,845 EUR

274,600 ISK

20,880 NOK

20,750 SEK

1,989 USD

This fee is payable to the receiving Office in the currency or one of the
currencies accepted by it.

Additional search fee (PCT Rule 40.2):

20,750 SEK

This fee is payable to the International Searching Authority and only in
particular circumstances.

Fee for copies of documents cited in the international search report (PCT Rule
44.3):

— for less than 10 pages

None

— for 10 pages

50 SEK

— for each page over 10

plus 2 SEK

How to obtain copies:

All documents cited in the international search report are available free of
charge from PRV’s online service “Cited Documents” at:  
<https://www.prv.se/en/patents/patent-online-services/>

The cited documents may also be ordered in paper form at the above cost

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.1 _ter_):

— for less than 10 pages

None

— for 10 pages

50 SEK

— for each page over 10

plus 2 SEK

Protest fee (PCT Rule 40.2(e)):

None

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rule 13 _ter_.1(c)):

None

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the search fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded

Where the international application is withdrawn or is considered withdrawn,
under PCT Article 14(1), (3) or (4), before the start of the international
search:  
refund of 100%

Where an earlier international or international-type search has already been
made by this Authority on an application whose priority is claimed: the search
fee will be refunded in part if the search can be based in full or in part on
the search that was carried out by the Authority

Where a search and examination report issued on an application filed with the
Danish Patent Office, the European Patent Office, the Finnish Patent and
Registration Office (PRH), the Icelandic Intellectual Property Office (ISIPO),
the Norwegian Industrial Property Office or the Swedish Intellectual Property
Office (PRV), the priority of which is claimed, is furnished together with the
international application:  
refund of 2,800 SEK

Where an earlier international application, the priority of which is claimed,
is furnished together with an international search report issued by the
European Patent Office, the Finnish Patent and Registration Office (PRH) or
the Nordic Patent Institute:  
refund of 2,800 SEK

Where an earlier international application, the priority of which is claimed,
is furnished together with an international-type search report issued by the
Finnish Patent and Registration Office (PRH) or the Nordic Patent Institute:  
refund of 2,800 SEK

Languages accepted for international search:

French is not accepted for international applications filed with the receiving
Office of, or acting for, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway or Sweden

Danish,

English,

Finnish,

French,

Norwegian,

Swedish

Does the Authority accept informal comments on earlier search results where an
international application claims priority from an earlier application already
searched by this Authority?

Refer to the Office

Types of physical media accepted for the furnishing of nucleotide and/or amino
acid sequence listings:

None. Physical media are not accepted. Sequence listings must be filed in
electronic form (refer to the Administrative Instructions under the PCT, Annex
C)

Subject matter that will not be searched:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 39.1 with the
exception of any subject matter searched under the patent grant procedure in
accordance with the provisions of Swedish patent law

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent or a common
representative who was not indicated on the request form at the time of filing

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent or a common
representative who was not indicated on the request form at the time of filing

##  Annex SISA - International Searching Authority (Supplementary Search)

Fees payable to the International Bureau:

For further details on the payment of fees to the International Bureau, refer
to the WIPO website at <http://www.wipo.int/pct/en/fees/special.html>

Supplementary search fee (PCT Rule 45 _bis_.3):

1,751 CHF

This fee is linked to the search fee charged by the European Patent Office and
will be revised from time to time to reflect currency fluctuations between SEK
and CHF

Supplementary search handling fee (PCT Rule 45 _bis_.2):

200 CHF

Late payment fee (PCT Rule 45 _bis_.4(c)):

100 CHF

Fees payable to the Authority:

Fee for copies of documents cited in the supplementary international search
report (PCT Rule 45 _bis_.7(c)):

All documents cited in the supplementary international search report are
available free of charge from PRV’s online service “Cited Documents” at:  
<https://www.prv.se/en/patents/patent-online-services/>

The cited documents may also be ordered in paper form at the following cost:

— for less than 10 pages

None

— for 10 pages

50 SEK

— for each page over 10

plus 2 SEK

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.1 _ter_):

— for less than 10 pages

None

— for 10 pages

50 SEK

— for each page over 10

plus 2 SEK

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rules 13 _ter_.1(c) and 45 _bis_.5(c)):

None

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the supplementary search fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded

The International Bureau shall refund this fee where the supplementary search
request has not yet been transmitted to the Authority and the international
application is withdrawn or considered withdrawn, or the supplementary search
request is withdrawn or considered not to have been submitted (refer to PCT
Rule 45 _bis_.3(d)):  
refund of 100%

The Authority shall refund this fee where work has not yet started and the
supplementary search request is considered not to have been submitted (refer
to PCT Rule 45 _bis_.3(e)):  
refund of 100%

Languages accepted for supplementary international search:

Danish,

English,

Finnish,

Norwegian,

Swedish

Subject matter that will not be searched:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 39.1 with the
exception of any subject matter searched under the patent grant procedure in
accordance with the provisions of Swedish patent law

Scope of documentation included in the supplementary international search:

In addition to PCT minimum documentation, the Authority shall include at least
the documents in its search collection in: Danish, Finnish, Norwegian, Swedish

Limitations on supplementary international search:

The Authority shall notify the International Bureau if demand for
supplementary international search exceeds available resources

Types of physical media accepted for the furnishing of nucleotide and/or amino
acid sequence listings:

None. Physical media are not accepted. Sequence listings must be filed in
electronic form (refer to the Administrative Instructions under the PCT, Annex
C)

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent or a common
representative who was not indicated in the request form at the time of filing

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent or a common
representative who was not indicated in the request form at the time of filing

##  Annex E - International Preliminary Examining Authority

International Preliminary Examining Authority competent for the following
Receiving Offices:

[AP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AP&doc-lang=EN)

African Regional Intellectual Property Organization - African Regional
Intellectual Property Organization (ARIPO)

,

[BR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BR&doc-lang=EN)

Brazil - National Institute of Industrial Property (Brazil)

,

[DK](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=DK&doc-lang=EN)

Denmark - Danish Patent and Trademark Office

,

[FI](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=FI&doc-lang=EN)

Finland - Finnish Patent and Registration Office (PRH)

,

[GH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=GH&doc-lang=EN)

Ghana - Registrar General's Department (Ghana)

,

[IN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IN&doc-lang=EN)

India - Indian Patent Office

,

[IS](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IS&doc-lang=EN)

Iceland - Icelandic Intellectual Property Office (ISIPO)

,

[KE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KE&doc-lang=EN)

Kenya - Kenya Industrial Property Institute

,

[LR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=LR&doc-lang=EN)

Liberia - Liberia Intellectual Property Office (LIPO)

,

[MA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MA&doc-lang=EN)

Morocco - Moroccan Office of Industrial and Commercial Property (OMPIC)

,

[MX](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MX&doc-lang=EN)

Mexico - Mexican Institute of Industrial Property

,

[NO](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=NO&doc-lang=EN)

Norway - Norwegian Industrial Property Office

,

[OA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=OA&doc-lang=EN)

African Intellectual Property Organization - African Intellectual Property
Organization (OAPI)

,

[SE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SE&doc-lang=EN)

Sweden - Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV)

,

[TT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TT&doc-lang=EN)

Trinidad and Tobago - Intellectual Property Office, Office of the Attorney
General and Ministry of Legal Affairs (Trinidad and Tobago)

,

[VN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=VN&doc-lang=EN)

Viet Nam - Intellectual Property Office of Viet Nam (IP Viet Nam)

,

[ZM](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ZM&doc-lang=EN)

Zambia - Patents and Companies Registration Agency (PACRA) (Zambia)

Preliminary examination fee (PCT Rule 58):

5,000 SEK

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority.

Additional preliminary examination fee (PCT Rule 68.3):

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority and
only in particular circumstances.

5,000 SEK

Handling fee (PCT Rule 57.1):

2,410 SEK

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority. It
is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee for copies of documents cited in the international preliminary examination
report (PCT Rule 71.2):

— for less than 10 pages

None

— for 10 pages

50 SEK

— for each page over 10

plus 2 SEK

How to obtain copies:

All documents cited in the international preliminary examination report are
available free of charge from PRV’s online service “Cited Documents” at:  
<https://www.prv.se/en/patents/patent-online-services/>

The cited documents may also be ordered in paper form at the above cost

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.2):

— for less than 10 pages

None

— for 10 pages

50 SEK

— for each page over 10

plus 2 SEK

Protest fee (PCT Rule 68.3(e)):

None

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rule 13 _ter_.2):

None

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the preliminary examination fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded

In the cases provided for under PCT Rule 58.3:

— in case of PCT Rules 54.4 and 58 _bis_.1(b)  
refund of 100%;

— in case of PCT Rule 60.1(c)  
refund of the amount paid less the amount of the current transmittal fee.

If the international application or the demand is withdrawn before the start
of the international preliminary examination:  
refund of 100%

Languages accepted for international preliminary examination:

French is not accepted for international applications filed with the receiving
Office of, or acting for, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway or Sweden

Danish,

English,

Finnish,

French,

Norwegian,

Swedish

Subject matter that will not be examined:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 67.1 with the
exception of any subject matter examined under the patent grant procedure in
accordance with the provisions of Swedish patent law

Are there any restrictions with regard to the competence of the Authority
acting as an International Preliminary Examining Authority?

No

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent or a common
representative who was not indicated in the request form or in the demand form
at the time of their filing

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent or a common
representative who was not indicated in the request form or in the demand form
at the time of their filing

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

Where applicant requests publication earlier than 16 months from the priority
date, not later than that request

— any additional indications:

At the time of filing (as part of the application)

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, relevant information on the
characteristics of the microorganism

Additional information

The applicant may request that, until the patent has been granted by the
Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV) or if the application has been
finally decided upon without resulting in the grant of the patent, the
furnishing of a sample shall only be effected to an expert in the art. The
same is applied to rejected or withdrawn applications within a period of 20
years from the filing date. The request to restrict the furnishing of a sample
to an expert in the art shall be filed by the applicant with the Swedish
Intellectual Property Office (PRV), at the latest, by the day upon which
technical preparations for publication of the application are considered to be
completed.

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(3): 31 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes, the Office permits reinstatement of rights under the "due care"
criterion.

Fee for reinstatement of rights (fee for reestablishment of rights)

1,000 SEK

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Where the filing fee has been paid within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the translation of the international application may be
filed within two months from the expiration of that time limit, provided that
the additional fee for late furnishing of the translation has been paid within
those two months

For further details, refer to paragraph SE.02

English,

Swedish

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Where the filing fee has been paid within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the translation of the international application may be
filed within two months from the expiration of that time limit, provided that
the additional fee for late furnishing of the translation has been paid within
those two months

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, as originally filed or
as amended, at applicant’s option), any text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, as originally filed or as
amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report, at
applicant’s option)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

The applicant should only send a copy of the international application if
he/she has not received Form PCT/IB/308 and the Office has not received a copy
of the international application from the International Bureau under PCT
Article 20. This may be the case where the applicant expressly requests an
earlier start of the national phase under PCT Article 23(2).

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

No

National fees:

Filing fee

Must be paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)

Entry fee

500 SEK

Search fee

2,500 SEK

Claim fee for each claim in excess of 10

150 SEK

Additional fee for late furnishing of translation or copy

500 SEK

Where the filing fee has been paid within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the translation of the international application may be
filed within two months from the expiration of that time limit, provided that
the additional fee for late furnishing of the translation has been paid within
those two months

Annual fee for the first two years

None

Annual fee for the 3rd year

This fee is due on the last day of the month containing the second anniversary
(24 months) of the international filing date; where PCT Article 22 or 39(1)
applies, it is payable within two months after performing the acts for
entering the national phase, unless the 24-month time limit has not yet
expired.

1,500 SEK

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has been
made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application

Who can act as agent?

Any natural or legal person

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

SE.01 FORM FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

The Office has available a special form for entering the national phase (refer
to Annex SE.II). This form should preferably (but need not) be used.

SE.02 LANGUAGE OF PROCEEDINGS

SPD Sec. 3  
The description, the claims, any text matter of drawings and the abstract of
the international application must be in Swedish or English.

A patent can also be granted in English. All patent documents may be furnished
in Swedish or in English. However, a translation of the claims into Swedish is
required where a patent in English is sought. The claims in English are
considered to be the original claims

Other documents and correspondence may be in Swedish, Danish, Norwegian or
English. However, the Office may abstain from requiring a translation or may
accept a translation into a language other than Swedish, Danish, Norwegian or
English of all documents which do not belong to the documents making up the
international application (for instance, if the document is in French or
German).

SE.03 TRANSLATION (LATE FURNISHING OF)

SPL Sec. 31(3)  
If the translation of the international application has not been furnished by
the applicant within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)
but the national fee indicated in the Summary has been paid within that time
limit, the translation can still be furnished within a further period of two
months, provided that the additional fee for late furnishing of the
translation, indicated in the Summary, has been paid within those two months.

SE.04 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

SE.05 TRANSLATION (IN CASE OF LACK OF UNITY OF INVENTION)

Where a part of the international application was not subjected to an
international search for reason of lack of unity of the invention, a
translation is required only of those parts of the international application
which were subjected to the international search. However, where the applicant
wants to maintain the part which was not searched, a translation of this part
must also be furnished. Also refer to paragraph SE.08.

SE.06 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex SE.I.

SE.07 POWER OF ATTORNEY

SPL Sec. 12,  SPL Sec. 33  
An agent may be appointed either by filing a separate power of attorney or in
the special form referred to in paragraph SE.01 (refer to Annex SE.II). A
model of a separate power of attorney is given in Annex SE.III.

SE.08 ADDITIONAL SWEDISH SEARCH OR EXAMINATION REPORT (IN CASE OF LACK OF
UNITY OF INVENTION)

PCT Art. 17(3)(b),  PCT Art. 34(3)(c),  SPL Sec. 36,  SPL Sec. 37  
Where a part of the international application was not subjected to
international search or preliminary examination because the international
application did not comply with the requirement of unity of invention and the
applicant did not pay the additional search or preliminary examination fee to
the International Searching or Preliminary Examining Authority, the Office
will decide whether the said finding as regards the application translated
into Swedish was correct. If this is found to be the case, the Office will
invite the applicant to pay an additional fee within two months after mailing
the notification of this decision. The amount of the said fee is indicated in
Annex SE.I. Where the applicant does not pay the additional fee, that part of
the international application which was not subjected to international search
or preliminary examination will be considered withdrawn.

SE.09 GRANT FEE

SPL Sec. 19,  SPL Sec. 20  
A grant fee must be paid within two months after the date of the notification
that a patent can be granted. The amount of the fee is indicated in Annex
SE.I.

SE.10 ANNUAL FEES

SPL Sec. 8(5),  SPL Sec. 40,  SPL Sec. 41,  SPL Sec. 42  
Annual fees must be paid for each year following the international filing
date. For the due date of annual fees for the first three years, refer to the
Summary. Payment of the subsequent annual fees must be made before the
expiration of the month containing the anniversary of the international filing
date. Payment can still be made, together with a 20% surcharge for late
payment, before the expiration of the sixth month after the month containing
the anniversary of the international filing date. The amounts of the annual
fees are indicated in Annex SE.I. It is to be noted that, where the 31-month
time limit under PCT Article 39(1)(b) applies, annual fees can be paid without
surcharge within two months after performing the acts for entering the
national phase.

SE.11 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMIT

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  SPL Sec. 13  
The applicant may make the following modifications before the Office, provided
that the scope of the subject matter of the application is not broadened
thereby:

SPL Sec. 34,  SPD Sec. 58  
(i) within 31 months from the priority date: corrections of defects and
voluntary amendments;

SPL Sec. 20,  SPD Sec. 19,  SPL Sec. 20,  SPL Sec. 21,  SPL Sec. 22,  SPL Sec.
23,  SPL Sec. 24  
(ii) up to the notification that a patent can be granted: amendments or
additions to the description and drawing(s) if they are necessary to comply
with general requirements under PCT Articles 5 and 7; amendments or additions
to the claims, which, unless the Office allows otherwise, must be made by
filing a new document comprising all of the claims in sequence; where
additions are made to the claims, the applicant must at the same time file a
statement indicating the reference basis for these additions.

SE.12 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51,  SPL Sec. 38,  SPL Sec. 75,  SPD Sec. 58b  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. If, upon review under PCT Article 25, the Office denies an
error or omission on the part of the receiving Office or the International
Bureau, an appeal against this decision may be lodged, within two months from
the date of the decision, with the Patent and Market Court.

SE.13 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2)  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.

SE.14

SPL Sec. 72,  SPL Sec. 73  
Reestablishment of rights may be requested where the applicant, in spite of
all due care required by the circumstances, was unable to observe a time limit
before the Office, default of which is prejudicial to his rights. A request
for reestablishment must be presented in writing within two months after the
removal of the cause of the failure to perform the action but not later than
one year from the expiration of the time limit which has not been observed.
Within the said two months, the omitted action must be completed, the fee for
reestablishment of rights (refer to Annex SE.I) must be paid and the request
must state the grounds on which it is based and set out the facts on which it
relies.

SE.15

SPL Sec. 15  
Resumption of proceedings concerning the application may be requested from the
Office where the applicant missed a time limit which has been fixed for a
certain action by the Office. Resumption of proceedings may not be requested
where the missed time limit is fixed in the PCT and the PCT Regulations. A
request for resumption of proceedings has the effect that the proceedings for
grant will be resumed, provided that, within four months from the expiration
of the missed time limit, the said request is presented in writing, the
resumption fee (refer to Annex SE.I) is paid and the omitted act has been
completed.

##  Annexes

Annex SE.I - Fees

Filing fee:

— Entry fee

500 SEK

— Search fee

2,500 SEK

— Claim fee for each claim in excess of 10

150 SEK

Additional fee for late furnishing of translation or copy of the international
application

500 SEK

Additional fee (refer to paragraph SE.08)

1,000 SEK

Special additional fee insofar as the application relates to an invention
which has not been searched or, in the case of Chapter II of the PCT, not
examined during the international phase

3,000 SEK

Grant fee:

— basic fee

2,500 SEK

— additional fee for each claim added after the filing of the application, if
the number of claims then exceeds the number for which a filing fee has been
paid

150 SEK

Resumption fee

1,000 SEK

Fee for reestablishment of rights

1,000 SEK

Fee for restoration of the right of priority

1,000 SEK

Annual fees:

— for the the first two years

None

— for the 3rd year

This fee is due on the last day of the month containing the second anniversary
(24 months) of the international filing date; where PCT Article 22 or 39(1)
applies, it is payable within two months after performing the acts for
entering the national phase, unless the 24 month time limit has not yet
expired.

1,500 SEK

— for the 4th year

1,600 SEK

— for the 5th year

1,800 SEK

— for the 6th year

2,000 SEK

— for the 7th year

2,200 SEK

— for the 8th year

2,600 SEK

— for the 9th year

2,900 SEK

— for the 10th year

3,200 SEK

— for the 11th year

3,600 SEK

— for the 12th year

4,000 SEK

— for the 13th year

4,500 SEK

— for the 14th year

4,900 SEK

— for the 15th year

5,300 SEK

— for the 16th year

5,700 SEK

— for the 17th year

6,100 SEK

— for the 18th year

6,500 SEK

— for the 19th year

6,900 SEK

— for the 20th year

7,300 SEK

Supplement for late payment

20% of the applicable annual fee

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of fees has to be effected in Swedish kronor. All payments must
indicate the national application number (however, if that number is not yet
known, the international application number may be used), the name of the
applicant and the category of fee being paid

Payment may be effected:

(i) by e-service for electronic payments at:  
<http://www.prv.se>

(ii) by deposit account at the Office

(iii) by Bankgiro to 5050-0248

Payments made outside Sweden should be effected by transfer to:  
Danske Bank Sverige  
Norrmalmstorg 1  
Box 7523  
103 92 Stockholm

IBAN  
SE 6912 000 0000 1281 011 1758

BIC/Swift  
DABASESX

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex SE.II - National processing request
form](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_se.pdf)

[Annex SE.III - Power of
attorney](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_se.pdf)

[Annex SE.IV - Deed of
transfer](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_IV_se.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Change(s) as of 11 April 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental Organization

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

The payment of fees has to be effected in Swedish kronor. All payments must
indicate the national application number (however, if that number is not yet
known, the international application number may be used), the name of the
applicant and the category of fee being paid

Payment may be effected:

(i) by e-service for electronic payments at:  
<http://www.prv.se>

(ii) by deposit account at the Office

(iii) by Bankgiro to 5050-0248

Payments made outside Sweden should be effected by transfer to:  
Danske Bank Sverige  
Norrmalmstorg 1  
Box 7523  
103 92 Stockholm

IBAN  
SE 6912 000 0000 1281 011 1758

BIC/Swift  
DABASESX

  

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format. Documents should preferably not be password protected.

  

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

  

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

Yes

  

  
Annex E - International Preliminary Examining Authority

Are there any restrictions with regard to the competence of the Authority
acting as an International Preliminary Examining Authority?

No

  

  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes, the Office permits reinstatement of rights under the "due care"
criterion.

Fee for reinstatement of rights (fee for reestablishment of rights)

1,000 SEK

  

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

No

  

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

  

Close

Current version applicable from 11 Apr 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

