####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * ISA
  * SISA
  * IPEA
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
SG - Useful informationSG - International PhaseSG - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationSG - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeSG - Annex D - International Searching AuthoritySG - Annex SISA -
International Searching Authority (Supplementary Search)SG - Annex E -
International Preliminary Examining AuthoritySG - Annex L - Deposits of
Microorganisms and Other Biological MaterialSG - National PhaseSG - Summary of
requirements for entry into the national phaseSG - The procedure in the
national PhaseSG - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide SG - Singapore  
Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **1 November 2023**

(published on 18 September 2023)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
RO: RO fees  
ISA: ISA fees  
SISA: IB fees  
IPEA: IPEA fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for SG - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore)).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

PA: Patents Act

PR: Patents Rules

List of currencies used in this document:

CHF (Swiss franc), EUR (Euro), JPY (Japanese yen), KRW (Korean won), SGD
(Singapore dollar), USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=SG).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Rule 23 _bis_.2(e), Rule 51 _bis_.3(c)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Singapore

Two-letter code:

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

Name of Office:

Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

Location:

1 Paya Lebar Link #11-03  
PLQ 1  
Paya Lebar Quarter  
Singapore 408533

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(65) 63 39 86 16

E-mail:

_for general enquiries_  
ipos_enquiry@ipos.gov.sg

 _for enquiries on specific PCT applications filed with RO/SG ISA/SG or
IPEA/SG_  
pct@ipos.gov.sg

Website:

<http://www.ipos.gov.sg>

Facsimile:

None

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Patents Act, Section 34

Unless written authorization from the Registrar to file abroad has already
been obtained or unless an application for the same invention has been filed
with the Office and not less than two months have elapsed and there is no
subsisting direction given by the Registrar prohibiting publication or
communication of the invention

Yes

Filing restrictions apply to:

Applications by residents

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Patents

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

The publication of the international application in English by the
International Bureau of WIPO gives the applicant generally the same right as
he would have had, if the patent had been granted on the date of publication
of the application or translation, to bring proceedings in the court or before
the Registrar for damages in respect of any act which would have infringed a
patent. However, such proceedings may only be brought after grant of a patent.
Refer to Part XVII of the Patents Act.

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or must be furnished within two months from the
expiration of the time limit under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)

Where an international application is filed on or after 1 April 2007 and
enters national phase at the express request of the applicant prior to the
expiration of the time limit under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), i.e. an express
request made under PCT Article 23(2) or 40(2), the time limit to give the name
and address of the inventor, where required, is the later of the following
periods:  
(a) 16 months from the priority date, or where there is no priority date, the
date of filing of the international application; or  
(b) 2 months from the date of national phase entry.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Singapore

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3).

Chinese,

English

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Same language as the international application (Chinese or English)

Language in which the request may be filed:

Chinese,

English

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”)

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

For the relevant notifications by the Office, refer to Official Notices (PCT
Gazette) dated 15 January 2015, pages 5 _et seq._ and 28 July 2022, pages 198
_et seq._

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies both the “unintentional” and the “due care” criteria
to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[JP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JP&doc-lang=EN)

Japan - Japan Patent Office (JPO)

,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

1,

[JP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JP&doc-lang=EN)

Japan - Japan Patent Office (JPO)

2,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

2

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

150 SGD

International filing fee:

2,052 SGD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

23 SGD

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

309 SGD

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

463 SGD

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(AT)  
Annex D(AU)  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(JP)  
Annex D(KR)  
Annex D(SG)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

electronic copy 28 SGD

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

250 SGD

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, but an address for service in Singapore is required

Who can act as agent?

As to who would be entitled to practice before the Registry, reference is made
to Part XIX of the Patents Act and the Patents (Patent Agents) Rules 2001

Any individual, partnership or body corporate entitled to practice before the
Registry of Patents of the Office

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Where an agent or common representative who is not indicated on the request
form at the time of filing performs any action after filing; or where it is
unclear that an agent or common representative has power to act on behalf of
the applicant.

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Where an agent or common representative who is not indicated on the request
form at the time of filing performs any action after filing; or where it is
unclear that an agent or common representative has power to act on behalf of
the applicant.

##  Annex D - International Searching Authority

International Searching Authority competent for the following Receiving
Offices:

[BN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BN&doc-lang=EN)

Brunei Darussalam - Brunei Darussalam Intellectual Property Office (BruIPO)

,

[ID](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ID&doc-lang=EN)

Indonesia - Directorate General of Intellectual Property (Indonesia)

,

[JP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JP&doc-lang=EN)

Japan - Japan Patent Office (JPO)

,

[KH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KH&doc-lang=EN)

Cambodia - Department of Industrial Property (DIP), Ministry of Industry,
Science, Technology and Innovation (MISTI) (Cambodia)

,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[MX](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MX&doc-lang=EN)

Mexico - Mexican Institute of Industrial Property

,

[SA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SA&doc-lang=EN)

Saudi Arabia - Saudi Authority for Intellectual Property (SAIP)

,

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

,

[TH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TH&doc-lang=EN)

Thailand - Department of Intellectual Property (DIP) (Thailand)

,

[TT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TT&doc-lang=EN)

Trinidad and Tobago - Intellectual Property Office, Office of the Attorney
General and Ministry of Legal Affairs (Trinidad and Tobago)

,

[UG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=UG&doc-lang=EN)

Uganda - Uganda Registration Services Bureau (URSB)

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

,

[VN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=VN&doc-lang=EN)

Viet Nam - Intellectual Property Office of Viet Nam (IP Viet Nam)

Search fee (PCT Rule 16):

1,452 CHF

1,598 EUR

242,200 JPY

2,218,000 KRW

2,240 SGD

1,664 USD

This fee is payable to the receiving Office in the currency or one of the
currencies accepted by it.

Additional search fee (PCT Rule 40.2):

2,240 SGD

This fee is payable to the International Searching Authority and only in
particular circumstances.

Fee for copies of documents cited in the international search report (PCT Rule
44.3):

per document 30 SGD

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.1 _ter_):

per document 30 SGD

Protest fee (PCT Rule 40.2(e)):

650 SGD

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rule 13 _ter_.1(c)):

None

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the search fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded

Where the international application is withdrawn or is considered withdrawn,
under PCT Article 14(1), (3) or (4), before the start of the international
search:  
refund of 100%

Where the Authority benefits from an earlier search, depending on the extent
to which the Authority benefits from earlier search:  
refund of 25% to 75%

Languages accepted for international search:

Chinese,

English

Does the Authority accept informal comments on earlier search results where an
international application claims priority from an earlier application already
searched by this Authority?

No

Types of physical media accepted for the furnishing of nucleotide and/or amino
acid sequence listings:

CD-R,

DVD-R

Subject matter that will not be searched:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 39.1 with the
exception of any subject matter searched under the patent grant procedure in
accordance with the provisions of Singapore patent law

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Where an agent or a common representative who is not indicated on the request
form at the time of filing performs any action after filing; or where it is
unclear that an agent or common representative has power to act on behalf of
the applicant.

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Where an agent or a common representative who is not indicated on the request
form at the time of filing performs any action after filing; or where it is
unclear that an agent or common representative has power to act on behalf of
the applicant.

##  Annex SISA - International Searching Authority (Supplementary Search)

Fees payable to the International Bureau:

For further details on the payment of fees to the International Bureau, refer
to the WIPO website at <http://www.wipo.int/pct/en/fees/special.html>

Supplementary search fee (PCT Rule 45 _bis_.3):

1,452 CHF

This fee is fixed by the Authority in SGD and will be revised from time to
time to reflect currency fluctuations between SGD and CHF

Supplementary search handling fee (PCT Rule 45 _bis_.2):

200 CHF

Late payment fee (PCT Rule 45 _bis_.4(c)):

100 CHF

Fees payable to the Authority:

Fee for copies of documents cited in the supplementary international search
report (PCT Rule 45 _bis_.7(c)):

per document 30 SGD

Review fee (PCT Rule 45 _bis_.6(c)):

650 SGD

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.1 _ter_):

per document 30 SGD

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rules 13 _ter_.1(c) and 45 _bis_.5(c)):

None

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the supplementary search fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded

The International Bureau shall refund this fee where the supplementary search
request has not yet been transmitted to the Authority and the international
application is withdrawn or considered withdrawn, or the supplementary search
request is withdrawn or considered not to have been submitted (refer PCT Rule
45 _bis_.3(d)):  
refund of 100%

The Authority shall refund this fee where work has not yet started and the
supplementary search request is considered not to have been submitted (refer
PCT Rule 45 _bis_.3(e)):  
refund of 100%

Languages accepted for supplementary international search:

English,

Chinese

Subject matter that will not be searched:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 39.1 with the
exception of any subject matter searched under the patent grant procedure in
accordance with the provisions of Singapore patent law

Scope of documentation included in the supplementary international search:

In addition to PCT minimum documentation, the Authority shall include at least
the documents in English and Chinese held in its search collection

Limitations on supplementary international search:

The Authority shall notify the International Bureau if the demand for
supplementary international search exceeds available resources

Types of physical media accepted for the furnishing of nucleotide and/or amino
acid sequence listings:

CD-R, DVD-R

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Where an agent or a common representative who is not indicated on the request
form at the time of filing performs any action after filing; or where it is
unclear that an agent or common representative has power to act on behalf of
the applicant.

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Where an agent or a common representative who is not indicated on the request
form at the time of filing performs any action after filing; or where it is
unclear that an agent or common representative has power to act on behalf of
the applicant.

##  Annex E - International Preliminary Examining Authority

The Intellectual Property Office of Singapore may act as International
Preliminary Examining Authority only if the international search is or has
been performed by that Office.

International Preliminary Examining Authority competent for the following
Receiving Offices:

[BN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BN&doc-lang=EN)

Brunei Darussalam - Brunei Darussalam Intellectual Property Office (BruIPO)

,

[ID](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ID&doc-lang=EN)

Indonesia - Directorate General of Intellectual Property (Indonesia)

,

[JP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JP&doc-lang=EN)

Japan - Japan Patent Office (JPO)

,

[KH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KH&doc-lang=EN)

Cambodia - Department of Industrial Property (DIP), Ministry of Industry,
Science, Technology and Innovation (MISTI) (Cambodia)

,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[MX](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MX&doc-lang=EN)

Mexico - Mexican Institute of Industrial Property

,

[SA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SA&doc-lang=EN)

Saudi Arabia - Saudi Authority for Intellectual Property (SAIP)

,

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

,

[TH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TH&doc-lang=EN)

Thailand - Department of Intellectual Property (DIP) (Thailand)

,

[TT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TT&doc-lang=EN)

Trinidad and Tobago - Intellectual Property Office, Office of the Attorney
General and Ministry of Legal Affairs (Trinidad and Tobago)

,

[UG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=UG&doc-lang=EN)

Uganda - Uganda Registration Services Bureau (URSB)

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

,

[VN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=VN&doc-lang=EN)

Viet Nam - Intellectual Property Office of Viet Nam (IP Viet Nam)

Preliminary examination fee (PCT Rule 58):

830 SGD

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority.

Additional preliminary examination fee (PCT Rule 68.3):

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority and
only in particular circumstances.

830 SGD

Handling fee (PCT Rule 57.1):

309 SGD

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority. It
is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee for copies of documents cited in the international preliminary examination
report (PCT Rule 71.2):

per document 30 SGD

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.2):

per document 30 SGD

Protest fee (PCT Rule 68.3(e)):

650 SGD

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rule 13 _ter_.2):

None

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the preliminary examination fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded

In the cases provided for under PCT Rule 58.3:  
refund of 100%

If the international application or the demand is withdrawn before the start
of the international preliminary examination:  
refund of 100%

Languages accepted for international preliminary examination:

Chinese,

English

Subject matter that will not be examined:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 67.1 with the
exception of any subject matter examined under the patent grant procedure in
accordance with the provisions of Singapore patent law

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Where an agent or a common representative who is not indicated on the request
form at the time of filing performs any action after filing; or where it is
unclear that an agent or common representative has power to act on behalf of
the applicant

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Where an agent or a common representative who is not indicated on the request
form at the time of filing performs any action after filing; or where it is
unclear that an agent or common representative has power to act on behalf of
the applicant

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

Where applicant requests publication earlier than 16 months from the priority
date, not later than that request

— any additional indications:

None

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

None

Additional information

The applicant may request that the furnishing of a sample of a microorganism
shall only be made available to an expert. The request to this effect must be
filed by the applicant with the International Bureau before the completion of
the technical preparations for international publication of the application.

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

The time limit may be extended by up to 18 months, provided the applicant pays
the prescribed fee (refer to Annex SG.I). Certain other time limits may also
be extended for periods of 6 or 18 months or longer, but only at the
discretion of the Registrar (refer to  
paragraphs SG.17-18)

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1), or at the time of any earlier express request by the applicant to
proceed earlier with the national phase

English

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1), or at the time of any earlier express request by the applicant to
proceed earlier with the national phase

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article 19 ), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Where the translation of the international application furnished by the
applicant consists only in the translation of the international application as
amended, the Office will invite the applicant to furnish the missing
translation of the international application as originally filed; if the
missing translation of the international application as originally filed is
still not furnished, the international application will be considered to be
withdrawn. Where the translation of the international application furnished by
the applicant consists only in the translation of the international
application as originally filed, the Office will invite the applicant to
furnish the missing translation of the amendments; if the missing translation
of the amendments is still not furnished, the amendments will be disregarded

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

National (filing) fee

210 SGD

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

Verification of translation of international application 3

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application 3 4

Address for service in Singapore (but no representation by an agent is
required) 5

Who can act as agent?

Any individual, partnership or body corporate entitled to practice before the
Registry of Patents of the Office 6

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies both the “unintentional” and the “due care” criteria
to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

SG.01 FORM FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

PR Rule 86(1)  
The Office has available a special form, Patents Form 37 (refer to Annex
SG.IX), for payment of the national fee (refer to Annex SG.I) upon entering
the national phase. This form should preferably (but need not) be used.

SG.02 TRANSLATION (VERIFICATION)

PR Rule 86(4)(d),  PR Rule 112  
The required verification of the translation of the international application
and of any other document consists of a simple statement by the person who
made the translation. The wording could be the following: “Re Patent
Application No. ..........., I [insert name of translator] of [insert address
of translator],

Address of translator is an optional field to be provided

hereby declare that I am conversant with the [insert language being
translated] and the English languages and that I am the translator of the
documents attached and certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief the
following is a true and correct translation of [insert identification of the
document being translated, e.g. the specification which accompanied German
patent application No. .......... in the name of .........] as originally
filed on [insert date].”

SG.03 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

PR Rule 91(1)  
Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003). A request for correction must be
made on Form CM4 (refer to Annex SG.XIII). This form should enclose:

(a) a clean copy incorporating the proposed corrections and

(b) a copy of the proposed corrections clearly indicated therein in the
following manner:

(i) by striking through any text, figure or other matter to be replaced or
deleted; and

(ii) by underlining any replacement text, figure or other matter.

The request for correction shall be filed, together with the payment of the
prescribed fee (refer to Annex SG.I).

SG.04 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex SG.I.

SG.05 ADDRESS FOR SERVICE

PR Rule 31,  PR Rule 90(4)  
An applicant, irrespective of whether or not he is a national of or a resident
in Singapore, is not required to be represented by an agent, but he is
required to have an address for service (of notices and other communications)
in Singapore. If an agent in Singapore is appointed to represent the applicant
for entry into the national phase, or one agent is substituted for another,
written authorization should be filed on Patents Form 37 (refer to Annex
SG.IX), together with the payment of the prescribed fee (refer to Annex SG.I).

SG.06 DESIGNATION OF THE INVENTOR

PR Rule 18  
Any statement of the name of the inventor under the Treaty is treated as a
statement filed under the national law. Otherwise details should be given on
Patents Form 8 shown in Annex SG.II. Legalization is not required. Refer to
the Summary for the relevant time limits.

SG.07 REQUEST FOR AN EXAMINATION REPORT 7

PA Sec. 29,  PR Rule 42,  PR Rule 43  
A request for an examination report must be filed on Patents Form 12 (refer to
Annex SG.IV) together with the payment of the prescribed fee (refer to Annex
SG.I) within 36 months from the declared priority date or, where there is no
declared priority date, from the date of filing the application. This request
must be accompanied by a copy of the international search report together with
each of the documents referred to in that report.

SG.08 PUBLICATION OF TRANSLATION

PA Sec. 86(6), PA Sec. 87(3), PR Rule 86(7)  
If the international application has not been published by the International
Bureau in English, the English translation furnished by the applicant will be
published by the Office.

SG.09 TRANSLATION OF REFERENCES CITED IN THE INTERNATIONAL SEARCH REPORT

PR Rule 42  
Upon the express demand of the Office, addressed to the applicant, the latter
has to furnish to the extent specified in the demand, and within such period
as the Registrar may specify, an English translation (refer to paragraph
SG.02) of any document or part thereof referred to in the international search
report as well as a copy of a verification document verifying the said
translation.

SG.10 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  PR Rule 49  
The applicant may, of his own volition, amend the description, claims,
drawings and abstract at any time before payment of the fee for the grant of a
patent, subject to the conditions specified under Rule 49(3) of the Patents
Rules.

PR Rule 48  
Applications for amendments must be made on Patents Form 13 (refer to Annex
SG.VI) accompanied by:

(a) a clean copy incorporating the proposed amendment, and

(b) a copy of the proposed amendment clearly indicated therein in the
following manner:

(i) by striking through any text, figure or other matter to be replaced or
deleted; and

(ii) by underlining any replacement text, figure or other matter.

SG.11 CORRECTION OF ERRORS IN THE APPLICATION

PA Sec. 107,  PR Rule 91(1),  PR Rule 56(3)  
The applicant may request the correction of an error of translation or
transcription or a clerical error or mistake in the application or any
document filed in connection therewith at any time. The request must be made
on Form CM4 (refer to Annex SG.XIII). This form should enclose:

(a) a clean copy incorporating the proposed corrections, and

(b) a copy of the proposed corrections clearly indicated therein in the
following manner:

(i) by striking through any text, figure or other matter to be replaced or
deleted; and

(ii) by underlining any replacement text, figure or other matter.

The request for correction shall be filed, together with the payment of the
prescribed fee (refer to Annex SG.I).

SG.12 NOTICE OF INTENTION TO RELY ON INTERNATIONAL PRELIMINARY REPORT ON
PATENTABILITY (IPRP)

PR Rule 42A,  PR Rule 43(4),  PA Sec. 29  
If the applicant chooses to rely on their IPRP (Chap. I) or IPRP (Chap. II)
that was established during the international phase to satisfy the grant
requirements for search and examination, they must file Patents Form 12A
(refer to Annex SG.V) to request a supplementary examination report. This
request must be accompanied by a copy of the IPRP and a table setting out how
each claim in the application is related to at least one claim in the
international application. To strengthen the Singapore patent regime and
improve the quality of the patents granted in Singapore, applicants will no
longer be able to request supplementary examination for (a) regular national
applications and PCT applications with a filing date on or after 1 January
2020 and (b) divisional applications with a date of lodgement on or after 1
January 2020.

SG. 13 PERIOD FOR PUTTING THE APPLICATION IN ORDER. GRANT OF PATENT

PA Sec. 30,  PR Rule 47  
The prescribed period for paying the fee for the grant of the patent is 2
months from the date of the issuance of the notice of eligibility to proceed
to the grant of a patent under Section 29A(1).

If the specification of the application for a patent has been amended or
corrected since the filing of the application, the applicant must file a
specification incorporating every such amendment and correction at the time
the prescribed fee for the grant of a patent is paid and Patents Form 14
(refer to Annex SG.VII) is completed and filed by the applicant.

SG.14 RENEWAL FEES

PA Sec. 36(3),  PA Sec. 36(4),  PR Rule 51  
After a patent has been granted, a fee must be paid for maintaining the patent
in force, starting with the fifth year counted from the international filing
date. Payment must be made in the three months ending with the fourth and each
subsequent anniversary of the international filing date. Payment can still be
made, together with an additional fee, before the expiration of the last day
of the sixth month from the anniversary of the international filing date.
Where a patent is granted after 45 months from the date of filing, the renewal
fee may be paid without an additional fee up to three months after the date of
grant or, with an additional fee, within six months from the end of these
three months. The amounts of the renewal fees and of the additional fee are
indicated in Annex SG.I. An application for the renewal of a patent must be
filed on Patents Form 15 (refer to Annex SG.VIII) (refer to also paragraph
SG.18).

SG.15 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51,  PA Sec. 85(3),  PR Rule 86(9),  PR Rule 86(10),
PR Rule 86(11),  PR Rule 86(12),  PA Sec. 91,  PA Sec. 93,  PR Rule 87,  PR
Rule 88,  Rules of Court 0.87A,  r 2  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. The review must be requested in a letter and be accompanied by
the prescribed fee indicated in Annex SG.I. If upon review under PCT Article
25, the Registry denies an error or omission on the part of the receiving
Office or the International Bureau, the applicant may ask for a hearing by
lodging Form HC4 (refer to Annex SG.XIV) together with the prescribed fee
(refer to Annex SG.I). The request must be filed within one month from the
date of notification by the Registry. If at the hearing, the hearing Officer
maintains the Registry’s view, the applicant may appeal to the Courts; notice
of appeal shall be lodged with the Court in the case of a decision on a matter
of procedure within 14 days after the date of the decision; and in any other
case, within six weeks after the date of the decision.

SG.16 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2)  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.

SG.17

PR Rule 108,  PR Rule 109  
Patents Form 45 (refer to Annex SG.X) is to be used to request an extension of
time or period. Certain time limits, including the time limit for entry into
the national phase, can be extended as of right by a period not exceeding 6 or
18 months. The request for such an extension may be filed even after the date
of expiry of the extension of time or period sought. Any further request for
an extension of time or period, when the period of 6 or 18 months has been
extended, will be subjected to the Registrar's discretion. Such a request must
be filed before the end of the period not exceeding 6 or 18 months.

SG.18

The other time limits specifically referred to in the Summary may be extended
on request if the Registry thinks fit and upon such terms as it may direct.
There is no special form for such a request. Any request for such an extension
shall be made in writing to the Registrar.

SG.19

PA Sec. 39,  PR Rule 53  
Provisions concerning reinstatement of rights or the like do not exist in
Singapore except if a patent ceases through non-payment of renewal fees, where
restoration may be requested under Section 39 of the Patents Act and Rule 53
of the Patents Rules.

SG.20 REQUEST FOR RESTORATION OF RIGHT OF PRIORITY

PA Sec. 17,  PR Rule 9A,  PR Rule 86(3A)  
A request for restoration of the right of priority in accordance with PCT Rule
49 _ter_.2 may be made under Rule 9A(2) of the Patents Rules for permission to
make a late declaration of priority under Section 17(2B) of the Patents Act
for all international applications filed with an international filing date on
or after 1 April 2007. The Office applies both the “unintentional” and “due
care” criteria to such requests which should be filed on Patents Form 57
(refer to Annex SG.XI) together with the prescribed fee (refer to Annex SG.I).

##  Annexes

Annex SG.I - Fees

Patents Form 37 — Entry into national phase

210 SGD

Patents Form 11 — Request for search and examination report

2,050 SGD

In case of an international application for a patent that has entered the
national phase, where, before the filing of the request for a search and
examination report, an international search report or an international
preliminary report on patentability was established by the Office under the
PCT, the amount will be 1,750 SGD plus 40 SGD for each claim in excess of 20.

— for each claim in excess of 20 claims

plus 40 SGD

Patents Form 12 — Request for an examination report

1,420 SGD

— for each claim in excess of 20 claims

plus 40 SGD

Patents Form 12A — Request for supplementary examination report

— Only eligible for applications with date of filing before 1 January 2020

None

Patents Form 14 — Payment of fee for grant of patent:

(a) Where the application for a patent is lodged before 14 February 2014 and
has a date of filing before 1 July 2004

170 SGD

(b) Where the application for a patent is lodged on or after 14 February 2014
and has a date of filing before 1 July 2004

210 SGD

(i) for each claim in excess of 20, where a supplementary examination report
is relied upon for the issuance of the certificate of grant

plus 40 SGD

(ii) in any other case, for each claim in excess of 20 or of the number of
claims in the patent specification for which the search and examination report
or examination report (as the case may be), relied upon for the issuance of
the certificate of grant, was requested

plus 40 SGD

Patents Form 15 — Payment of renewal fee

(a) for each year in respect of the 5th, 6th or 7th year of the patent

165 SGD

(b) for each year in respect of the 8th, 9th or 10th year of the patent

430 SGD

(c) for each year in respect of the 11th, 12th or 13th year of the patent

600 SGD

(d) for each year in respect of the 14th, 15th or 16th year of the patent

775 SGD

(e) for each year in respect of the 17th, 18th or 19th year of the patent

945 SGD

(f) for the 20th year of the patent

1,120 SGD

(g) for each year after the 20th year of a patent

1,380 SGD

Payment of additional fee:

(a) for late payment of renewal fee not exceeding one month

50 SGD

(b) for late payment of renewal fee for each succeeding month (but not
exceeding 6 months)

100 SGD

Patents Form 45/46/47 — Request for extension of time or period

For an application for a patent lodged before 14 February 2014:

(a) Request under Rule 108(3), for each time or period, and each month or part
of a month

200 SGD

(b) Request under Rule 108(4) or (4A)

200 SGD

(c) Payment of additional fee under Rule 108(6), for each time or period, and
each month or part of a month

200 SGD

For an application for a patent lodged on or after 14 February 2014:

(a) Request under Rule 108(3), for each time or period, and each month or part
of a month

200 SGD

(b) Request under Rule 108(5)

200 SGD

— for each time or period, and each month or part of a month

plus 200 SGD

Patents Form 57 — Addition, correction or late declaration of priority:

(a) For declaration under rule 9(2) or request under rule 9(3)

120 SGD

(b) For declaration under rule 9A(2)

250 SGD

Form CM1 — Request to appoint, change or remove agent, per application

None

Form CM4 — Request for correction of error

(a) For the correction of form, correction of Register of Patents, or
correction of documents other than form or specification of a patent or of an
application for a patent

50 SGD

(b) For the correction of specification of a patent or an application for a
patent

120 SGD

Form HC4 — Request for ex parte hearing

100 SGD

Application to Registrar for an international application to be treated as an
application under the Act

160 SGD

Submission of Patents Forms via the Electronic Online Service (EOS)

For the purposes of Singapore national phase, applicants must use the EOS for
the submission of patents forms  
(<https://digitalhub.ipos.gov.sg>) which include:

(a) Optional form for entering the national phase, Patents Form 37

(b) Request for an examination report, Patents Form 12

(c) Payment of fee for grant, Patents Form 14

(d) Payment of renewal fee, Patents Form 15

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of fees has to be effected in Singapore dollars. All payments,
except for the fee for entering the national phase, must be made together with
the filing of the form related to the fee to be paid, and should be
accompanied by Fee Payment Forms which are available from the Registry of
Patents. All payments should indicate the payer’s name and address, the
application number (national, if already known; international, if the national
number is not yet known), the name and the address of the applicant and the
number of the Patents Form related to the fee being paid.  
Payments may be made by one of the following means: Internet banking, GIRO and
Visa/MasterCard credit and debit cards.

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex SG.II - Statement of inventorship and of right to the grant of a patent
(Patents Form 8)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_sg.pdf)

[Annex SG.III - Request for search and examination report (Patents Form
11)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_sg.pdf)

[Annex SG.IV - Request for examination report (Patents Form
12)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_IV_sg.pdf)

[Annex SG.V - Request for supplementary examination report (Patents Form
12A)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_V_sg.pdf)

[Annex SG.VI - Request to amend application before grant (Patents Form
13)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_VI_sg.pdf)

[Annex SG.VII - Payment of fee for grant of a patent (Patents Form
14)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_VII_sg.pdf)

[Annex SG.VIII - Payment of renewal fee and any additional fee (Patents Form
15)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_VIII_sg.pdf)

[Annex SG.IX - Entry into national phase (Patents Form
37)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_IX_sg.pdf)

[Annex SG.X - Request for extension of time or period (Patents Form
45/46/47)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_X_sg.pdf)

[Annex SG.XI - Addition, correction or late declaration of priority (Patents
Form 57)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_XI_sg.pdf)

[Annex SG.XII - Request to appoint, change or remove agent (Form
CM1)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_XII_sg.pdf)

[Annex SG.XIII - Request for correction of error (Form
CM4)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_XIII_sg.pdf)

[Annex SG.XIV - Request for ex parte hearing (Form
HC4)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_XIV_sg.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office or the Austrian Patent Office.  
2 ^ a b The Office is competent only if the international search is or has
been carried out by that Office.  
3 ^ a b Must be furnished within two months from the time limit for entering
the national phase.  
4 ^ a This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  
5 ^ a If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.  
6 ^ a As to who would be entitled to practice before the Registry, reference
is made to Part XIX of the Patents Act and the Patents (Patent Agents) Rules
2001.  
7 ^ a Other options are available to applicants to satisfy the search and
examination requirements in Singapore. For details, please refer to the
Office’s web site.  

Change(s) as of 1 November 2023 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

International filing fee:

2,052 SGD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

23 SGD

  

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

309 SGD

  

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

463 SGD

  

  
Annex D - International Searching Authority

Search fee (PCT Rule 16):

1,452 CHF

1,598 EUR

242,200 JPY

2,218,000 KRW

2,240 SGD

1,664 USD

This fee is payable to the receiving Office in the currency or one of the
currencies accepted by it.

  

  
Annex SISA - International Searching Authority (Supplementary Search)

Supplementary search fee (PCT Rule 45 _bis_.3):

1,452 CHF

This fee is fixed by the Authority in SGD and will be revised from time to
time to reflect currency fluctuations between SGD and CHF

  

  
Annex E - International Preliminary Examining Authority

Handling fee (PCT Rule 57.1):

309 SGD

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority. It
is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Close

Current version applicable from 1 Nov 2023 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

