####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
SK - Useful informationSK - International PhaseSK - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationSK - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeSK - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialSK - National PhaseSK - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseSK - The procedure in the national PhaseSK - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide SK - Slovakia  
Industrial Property Office of the Slovak Republic

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **11 April 2024**

(published on 11 April 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
GENERAL INFO: Payment methods  
RO: Electronic filing, Incorporation by reference  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase: National phase,
Restoration of the right of priority, Reinstatement of rights  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Jan 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for SK - Industrial Property Office of the Slovak Republic)).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Industrial Property Office of the Slovak Republic

PA: Act No 435/2001 Coll on Patents, Supplementary Protection Certificates and
on Amendments of Other Acts (The Patent Act), as amended 1

UM: Act No 517/2007 Coll on Utility Models and on Amendments of Some Acts, as
amended 1

AF: Act No 145/1995, Coll on Administrative Fees, as amended 1

AP: Act No 71/1967 Coll on Administrative Procedures, as amended 1

MF: Act No 495/2008 Coll on Maintenance Fees for the Patent, Maintenance Fee
for the European Patent with Effects for the Slovak Republic and the
Maintenance Fee for the Supplementary Protection Certificate for Medicinal and
Plant Protection Products and on Amendments of Some Acts, as amended 1

List of currencies used in this document:

EUR (Euro)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=SK).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Slovakia

Two-letter code:

[SK](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SK&doc-lang=EN)

Slovakia - Industrial Property Office of the Slovak Republic

Name of Office:

Industrial Property Office of the Slovak Republic

Location:

Švermova 43  
974 04 Banská Bystrica 4  
Slovakia

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(421-48) 430 01 31

E-mail:

podatelna@indprop.gov.sk

Website:

<http://www.indprop.gov.sk>  
<http://www.upv.sk>

Facsimile:

None

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[SK](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SK&doc-lang=EN)

Slovakia - Industrial Property Office of the Slovak Republic

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: SK

European patent: EP

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents

Utility models (a utility model may be sought instead of or in addition to a
national patent)

European:

Patents

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

The payment of fees must be effected in the following currency: Euro (EUR).

Payment must be effected to the account No. 7000060750/8180 of the Industrial
Property Office of the Slovak Republic:

Bank name  
State Treasury  
Radlinského 32  
810 05 Bratislava

Name of the account  
Depozitný účet ÚPV SR BB

IBAN code  
SK49 8180 0000 0070 0006 0750

BIC code  
SPSRSKBA

Constant Symbol  
0558

The person effecting the payment is obliged to indicate the variable symbol
specified in the invitation of the Office to pay the fee.

For further information on payment of maintenance fees and payment of fees for
utility models, please refer to:  
<http://www.upv.sk/?patents-maintenance-fees> and  
<https://www.indprop.gov.sk/en/utility-models/utility-models/administrative-
fees>.

International filing fee and search fee (PCT fees) are to be paid to the
account dedicated for receiving this type of fees:

IBAN  
SK96 8180 0000 0070 0006 0777

SWIFT  
SPSRSKBA

For further details, refer to:  
<https://www.indprop.gov.sk/en/patents/patents/fees/pct-fees>

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

Article 41(a) of Patent Law No. 435/2001 Coll. and Article 23 of Decree No
223/2002 Coll.; Article 38(a) of Utility Model Law No. 517/2007 Coll. and
Article 20(b) of Decree No. 1/2008 Coll.

Provisional protection after international publication:

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a national patent:

Under Articles 13(2), 15(1) and 15(2) of the Patent Law, the applicant is
entitled to appropriate remuneration starting from the day of publication of
the application in the Official Journal of the Industrial Property Office of
the Slovak Republic, provided that a patent has been granted for an invention
which is the subject of the application. However, claiming of these rights
vis-à-vis third parties shall be possible only as from the date of effect of
the patent.

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a European patent:

The provisional protection shall be effective in Slovakia as from the day on
which:

(1) the international application has been published in one of the EPO
official languages; and

(2) the translation of the claims into the Slovak language has been made
available to the public.

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

For national protection

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished later. If not already complied with
within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office
will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit
fixed in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

For a European patent

Refer to [Annex B(EP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=ep&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Slovakia

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (refer to PCT Rule 12.3)

If the language in which the international application is filed is not a
language of publication and no translation is required for the purposes of
international search (PCT Rule 12.3(a)), the applicant will have to furnish a
translation of the application into English (PCT Rule 12.4(a))

English,

French,

German,

Slovak

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Same language as the international application (English, French, German or
Slovak)

Language in which the request may be filed:

English,

French,

German

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

3

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notifications by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 2 June 2016, pages 112 _et seq._ and 4 August 2022, page
210.

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C
of the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

If color drawings are submitted/filed by ePCT, the Office transmits them as
filed. If color drawings are submitted to the Office by other means, they are
uploaded to ePCT as received.

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[XV](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=XV&doc-lang=EN)

Visegrad Patent Institute - Visegrad Patent Institute (VPI)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[XV](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=XV&doc-lang=EN)

Visegrad Patent Institute - Visegrad Patent Institute (VPI)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

online filings 33 EUR  
paper filings 66 EUR

International filing fee:

1,381 EUR

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

16 EUR

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

208 EUR

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

311 EUR

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(XV)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

— where the request for a copy of the priority document is filed by electronic
means

10 EUR

— where the request for a copy of the priority document is filed on paper

20 EUR

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

166 EUR

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No

Who can act as agent?

Any person appointed by the applicant

Waiver of power of attorney:

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Refer to the Office

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Refer to the Office

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

The name and address of the depositary institution and accession number at the
time of filing (as part of the application)

— any additional indications:

At the time of filing (as part of the application)

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, relevant information on the
characteristics of the biological material

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(3): 31 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes, the Office permits reinstatement under the “due care” criterion.

Fee for reinstatement

166 EUR

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Slovak

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

No, the Office does not accept color drawings, however it allows drawings
which contain greyscale reproduction.

National fees:

Must be paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)
or, if not paid within that time limit, within 15 days from the receipt of the
invitation to pay the filing fee

Patents

Filing fee:

— where the application is filed by an inventor or co-inventors

30 EUR

— where the application is filed by an applicant other than the inventor or by
applicants other than the co-inventors

60 EUR

Utility models

Filing fee:

— where the application is filed by an inventor or co-inventors

34 EUR

— where the application is filed by an applicant other than the inventor or by
applicants other than the co-inventors

68 EUR

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

The filing fee is reduced by 50% where the application is filed by electronic
means

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Document(s) relating to the applicant’s entitlement to apply for and be
granted a patent if the applicant is not an inventor 2

Translation of the international application for a patent in three copies

Translation of the international application for a utility model in three
copies

Where the validity of the priority claim is relevant to the determination of
whether the invention concerned is patentable, the Office may invite the
applicant to furnish a translation of the priority document into the Slovak
language or one of the official languages of the EPO, at the option of the
applicant

Applicants who are not citizens of a Contracting State to the Agreement on the
EEA, or who have neither a residence nor a place of business in a Contracting
State to the Agreement on the EEA, must be represented by an attorney-at-law
or a patent attorney registered in the Slovak Republic

Who can act as agent?

Applicants who are citizens of a Contracting State to the Agreement on the
EEA, or who have a residence or place of business in a Contracting State to
the Agreement on the EEA, may appoint any person to act as such

Applicants who are not citizens of a Contracting State to the Agreement on the
EEA, or who have neither a residence nor a place of business in a Contracting
State to the Agreement on the EEA, must be represented by an attorney-at-law
or a patent attorney registered in the Slovak Republic

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

SK.01 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003). If the translation furnished to
the Office contains only the description, the Office will invite the applicant
to furnish the missing parts and will excuse the late furnishing, provided
that the scope of the disclosure contained in the translation furnished to the
Office is not broadened thereby.

SK.02 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex SK.I.

SK.03 POWER OF ATTORNEY

AP Art. 17(3)  
An agent must be appointed by filing a power of attorney. A model is given in
Annex SK.II.

SK.04 ANNUAL FEES

MF Art. 5,  MF Art. 8  
The fees for maintaining the patent in force are due for each year of the
validity of the patent (refer to Annex SK.I). The first maintenance fee for
the patent is payable upon invitation, within three months from the date of
the decision on patent grant, for the period from the filing of the patent
application including the year of the decision on grant; for each subsequent
year of validity of the patent, the fees are due, without invitation, prior to
the expiration of the preceding year of validity. If payment is not made
within this time limit, it can still be made within six months from the due
date, with a 100% surcharge.

SK.05 REQUEST FOR EXAMINATION

PA Art. 43(1)  
A patent will be granted only after examination as to patentability which may
be requested by the applicant or by a third party. There is no special form
for the request.

SK.06 TIME LIMIT FOR REQUESTING EXAMINATION

PA Art. 43(2)  
Examination must be requested within 36 months from the international filing
date.

SK.07 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  PA Art. 45  
The applicant may make amendments to the description, claims and drawings,
until the decision granting the patent becomes definitive, provided that the
subject matter of the amended application does not exceed the scope of the
application as originally filed.

SK.08 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. If, upon review under PCT Article 25, the Office denies an
error or omission on the part of the receiving Office or the International
Bureau, a request for rejudgment of that decision may be filed within 30 days
from the date of the notification of this decision.

SK.09 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2),  PA Art. 51(1),  PA Art. 51(3),  PA Art.
51(4)  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase. Time
limits fixed by the Office for a certain action may be extended upon request.
This request must be accompanied by a special fee for extension of time limits
(refer to Annex SK.I).

SK.10 FURTHER PROCESSING

PA Art. 51(2),  PA Art. 51(3)  
If a party to the proceedings before the Office has failed to comply with the
time limit set by the Office for performing an act, he is entitled to ask the
Office for further processing and, at the same time, perform the omitted act
within two months from the receipt of the Office’s decision issued as a
consequence of failure to comply with the time limit. The request must be
accompanied by a special fee (refer to Annex SK.I).

SK.11 RESTITUTIO IN INTEGRUM

PA Art. 52(1),  PA Art. 52(2),  PA Art. 52(3)  
If, in spite of all due care required by the circumstances having been taken,
a party to the proceedings before the Office has failed to comply with the
statutory time limit or the time limit set by the Office for performing an
act, where a consequence of non-performance of the act is the suspension of
the proceedings or another right is lost, he is entitled to ask the Office for
_restitutio in integrum_ and at the same time perform the omitted act within
two months from the removal of the cause for which he could not perform the
act but no later than 12 months from the expiry of the non-complied time
limit. The request must be accompanied by a special fee. The party to the
proceedings shall justify the request and state particularly the facts which
had prevented the performance of the act. Statements submitted after the
expiry of any of the time limits set shall not be taken into consideration by
the Office when making a decision about the request.

SK.12 UTILITY MODEL

PCT Art. 4.3,  PCT Art. 43,  PCT Art. 44,  PCT Rule 4.12,  PCT Rule 49
_bis_.1,  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1(a),  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1(b),  PCT Rule 76.5,
UM. Art. 57  
If the applicant wishes to obtain utility model registration in the Slovak
Republic on the basis of an international application

(i) instead of a patent or

(ii) in addition to a patent,

subject to what is said in paragraph 16, the applicant, when performing the
acts referred to in Article 22 or 39, shall so indicate to the Office.

SK.13

If the international application is for a utility model instead of a patent
(refer to the case referred to in paragraph SK.12), the requirements are
basically the same as for patents except that the applicant is not required:

(i) to make a request for examination and

(ii) to pay annual fees.

Instead of annual fees, extension fees are due for utility models. The due
date and amounts are indicated in Annex SK.I. By payment of extension fees the
term of protection (which is four years from the filing date) may be extended
twice, for a period of three years (up to a total term of protection of ten
years from the filing date).

SK.14

PA. Art. 58(3),  UM Art. 57(1)  
If the international application is for both a utility model and a patent
(refer to the case referred to in paragraph SK.12(ii), the applicant must,
within the time limit applicable for the entry into the national phase, comply
with the following requirements:

(i) furnish the international application (one copy for a patent, one copy for
a utility model)

(ii) furnish the translation of international application in three copies for
the patent and in three copies for the utility model.

The requirement (ii) may still be complied with within a time limit fixed in
an invitation by the Office, if not already complied with within the time
limit applicable for the entry into the national phase.

The applicant must pay two filing fees for both the patent and the utility
model. The filing fee must be paid when filing the application or within 15
days from the receipt of the invitation to pay the filing fee.

SK.15

PCT Art. 7(2)(ii)  
Where, in either of the cases referred to in paragraph SK. 12, the
international application does not contain drawings, the Office will invite
the applicant to furnish drawings within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

SK.16

UM. Art. 35  
Where an applicant has filed a national or a European patent application for a
European patent valid in the Slovak Republic, and subsequently files a utility
model application concerning the same subject matter as the earlier patent
application, he/she may claim the filing date of that earlier patent
application provided the utility model application is filed within two months
from the date on which the decision on the patent application becomes final,
or, if no such decision has been taken, before the end of the tenth year from
the date of filing of the patent application. Any priority which is claimed in
the earlier patent application will also apply to the subsequent utility model
application.

##  Annexes

Annex SK.I - Fees

Patents

Filing fee:

The filing fee is reduced by 50% where the application is filed by electronic
means

— where the application is filed by an inventor or co-inventors

30 EUR

— where the application is filed by an applicant other than the inventor or by
applicants other than the co-inventors

60 EUR

Fee for registration of the assignment of an application to another applicant

30 EUR

Fee for requesting examination:

— basic fee

116 EUR

— additional fee for each claim in excess of 10

20 EUR

Fee for the second and subsequent extensions of the time limit

20 EUR

Fee for further processing

66 EUR

Fee for _restitutio in integrum_

166 EUR

Fee for issue of patent specification not exceeding 10 pages

66 EUR

— for each additional page

10 EUR

Annual fees:

— for the 3rd year

66 EUR

— for the 4th year

82.50 EUR

— for the 5th year

99.50 EUR

— for the 6th year

116 EUR

— for the 7th year

132.50 EUR

— for the 8th year

149 EUR

— for the 9th year

165.50 EUR

— for the 10th year

199 EUR

— for the 11th year

232 EUR

— for the 12th year

265.50 EUR

— for the 13th year

298.50 EUR

— for the 14th year

331.50 EUR

— for the 15th year

365 EUR

— for the 16th year

398 EUR

— for the 17th year

464.50 EUR

— for the 18th year

531 EUR

— for the 19th year

597 EUR

— for the 20th year

663.50 EUR

Utility models

Filing fee:

The filing fee is reduced by 50% where the application is filed by electronic
means

— where the application is filed by an inventor or co-inventors

34 EUR

— where the application is filed by an applicant other than the inventor or by
applicants other than the co-inventors

68 EUR

Extension of validity of a utility model registration

If the utility model was entered in the Register of utility models after the
expiration of its validity, the Office will invite the applicant to pay the
fee for extension of validity within two months from the issuance of the
certificate

— for the first time for three years

150 EUR

— for the first time for three years within six months after the expiration of
the validity of a utility model

300 EUR

— for the second time for three years

300 EUR

— for the second time for three years within six months after the expiration
of the validity of a utility model

600 EUR

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of fees must be effected in the following currency: Euro (EUR).

Payment must be effected to the account No. 7000060750/8180 of the Industrial
Property Office of the Slovak Republic:

Bank name  
State Treasury  
Radlinského 32  
810 05 Bratislava

Name of the account  
Depozitný účet ÚPV SR BB

IBAN code  
SK49 8180 0000 0070 0006 0750

BIC code  
SPSRSKBA

Constant Symbol  
0558

The person effecting the payment is obliged to indicate the variable symbol
specified in the invitation of the Office to pay the fee.

For further information on payment of maintenance fees and payment of fees for
utility models, please refer to:

<http://www.upv.sk/?patents-maintenance-fees> and

<https://www.indprop.gov.sk/en/utility-models/utility-models/administrative-
fees>.

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex SK.II - Power of
attorney](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_sk.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a b c d e The text of the laws may be obtained on the Internet at:
<http://www.upv.sk> or <http://www.indprop.gov.sk>  
2 ^ a This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  

Change(s) as of 11 April 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental Organization

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

The payment of fees must be effected in the following currency: Euro (EUR).

Payment must be effected to the account No. 7000060750/8180 of the Industrial
Property Office of the Slovak Republic:

Bank name  
State Treasury  
Radlinského 32  
810 05 Bratislava

Name of the account  
Depozitný účet ÚPV SR BB

IBAN code  
SK49 8180 0000 0070 0006 0750

BIC code  
SPSRSKBA

Constant Symbol  
0558

The person effecting the payment is obliged to indicate the variable symbol
specified in the invitation of the Office to pay the fee.

For further information on payment of maintenance fees and payment of fees for
utility models, please refer to:  
<http://www.upv.sk/?patents-maintenance-fees> and  
<https://www.indprop.gov.sk/en/utility-models/utility-models/administrative-
fees>.

International filing fee and search fee (PCT fees) are to be paid to the
account dedicated for receiving this type of fees:

IBAN  
SK96 8180 0000 0070 0006 0777

SWIFT  
SPSRSKBA

For further details, refer to:  
<https://www.indprop.gov.sk/en/patents/patents/fees/pct-fees>

  

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

Yes, any format

  

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

  

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

If color drawings are submitted/filed by ePCT, the Office transmits them as
filed. If color drawings are submitted to the Office by other means, they are
uploaded to ePCT as received.

  

  
Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes, the Office permits reinstatement under the “due care” criterion.

Fee for reinstatement

166 EUR

  

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

No, the Office does not accept color drawings, however it allows drawings
which contain greyscale reproduction.

  

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

  

Close

Current version applicable from 11 Apr 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

