####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
SV - Useful informationSV - International PhaseSV - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationSV - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeSV - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialSV - National PhaseSV - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseSV - The procedure in the national PhaseSV - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide SV - El Salvador  
National Center of Registries (CNR) (El Salvador)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **1 March 2024**

(published on 1 February 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
RO: RO fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 1 Jan 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for SV - National Center of Registries \(CNR\) \(El Salvador\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: National Center of Registries (CNR) (El Salvador)

List of currencies used in this document:

USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=SV).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

El Salvador

Two-letter code:

[SV](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SV&doc-lang=EN)

El Salvador - National Center of Registries (CNR) (El Salvador)

Name of Office:

National Center of Registries (CNR) (El Salvador)

Location:

1a Calle Poniente y 43 Avenida Norte  
Número 2310  
San Salvador  
El Salvador

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(503) 2593 5151  
(503) 2593 5444

E-mail:

patentes@cnr.gob.sv

Website:

<http://www.cnr.gob.sv>

Facsimile:

None

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[SV](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SV&doc-lang=EN)

El Salvador - National Center of Registries (CNR) (El Salvador)

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[SV](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SV&doc-lang=EN)

El Salvador - National Center of Registries (CNR) (El Salvador)

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Patents

utility models

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished later. If not already complied with
within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office
will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

El Salvador

Language in which international applications may be filed:

Depending on the applicant’s choice of competent International Searching
Authority, a translation into a corresponding language (refer to Annex D) may
have to be furnished by the applicant (PCT Rule 12.3)

Spanish

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

The Office has not specifically notified the International Bureau of the
language that it accepts under PCT Rule 12.1(d).

Same as above

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

3

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 22 May 2020, pages 99 _et seq._

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C
of the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
If the receiving Office does not accept international applications in
electronic form in such format, the international application will be
transmitted to the International Bureau as receiving Office (PCT Rule
19.4(a)(ii-_bis_)).

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, please refer to the Office for the applicable criteria and/or any fee
payable for such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[CL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CL&doc-lang=EN)

Chile - National Institute of Industrial Property (Chile)

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[ES](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ES&doc-lang=EN)

Spain - Spanish Patent and Trademark Office

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[CL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CL&doc-lang=EN)

Chile - National Institute of Industrial Property (Chile)

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[ES](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ES&doc-lang=EN)

Spain - Spanish Patent and Trademark Office

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

However, the applicable postage fee for the transmittal of the copy of the
international application to the International Bureau and the International
Searching Authority is payable by the applicant

None

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

235 USD

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

352 USD

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(CL)  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(ES)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

30 USD

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in El Salvador  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any attorney registered in El Salvador

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Not applicable

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Not applicable

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

None

— any additional indications:

None

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, a description of the characteristics
and an indication of the usefulness of the microorganism and/or other
biological material

Additional information

Deposits may also be made for the purposes of patent procedure before the
National Center of Registries (CNR) (El Salvador) with any depositary
institution having acquired the status of international depositary authority
under the Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of
Microorganisms for the Purposes of Patent Procedure.

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Spanish

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended), any text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Filing fee

57.14 USD

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application 1 2

Document evidencing a change of name of the applicant 2

Translation of the international application to be furnished in three copies 2

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in El Salvador

Power of attorney if an agent is appointed

Furnishing, where applicable, of a nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence
listing in electronic form

Who can act as agent?

Any attorney registered in El Salvador

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, please refer to the Office for the applicable criteria

##  The procedure in the national Phase

Information not yet available

##  Annexes

Annex SV.I - Fees

Information not yet available

Forms

Please refer to the Office.

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  
2 ^ a b c If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under
PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with
the requirement within a time limit of two months from the date of receipt of
the invitation.  

Change(s) as of 1 March 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

  

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

235 USD

  

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

352 USD

  

Close

Current version applicable from 1 Mar 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

