####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
SY - Useful informationSY - International PhaseSY - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationSY - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeSY - National PhaseSY - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseSY - The procedure in the national PhaseSY - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide SY - Syrian Arab Republic  
Ministry of Internal Trade and Consumer Protection, Directorate of Industrial
and Commercial Property Protection (Syrian Arab Republic)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **1 March 2024**

(published on 1 February 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
RO: RO fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 1 Jan 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for SY - Ministry of Internal Trade and Consumer Protection, Directorate of
Industrial and Commercial Property Protection \(Syrian Arab Republic\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Ministry of Internal Trade and Consumer Protection, Directorate of
Industrial and Commercial Property Protection (Syrian Arab Republic)

List of currencies used in this document:

SYP (Syrian Pound), USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=SY).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Friday and Saturday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Syrian Arab Republic

Two-letter code:

[SY](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SY&doc-lang=EN)

Syrian Arab Republic - Ministry of Internal Trade and Consumer Protection,
Directorate of Industrial and Commercial Property Protection (Syrian Arab
Republic)

Name of Office:

Ministry of Internal Trade and Consumer Protection, Directorate of Industrial
and Commercial Property Protection (Syrian Arab Republic)

Location:

Rukn Aldeen Facing Ibn Alnafis  
Damascus  
Syrian Arab Republic

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(963-11) 516 1185

E-mail:

patentoffice@spo.gov.sy

Website:

<http://www.dcip.gov.sy>

Facsimile:

(963-11) 516 1144

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[SY](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SY&doc-lang=EN)

Syrian Arab Republic - Ministry of Internal Trade and Consumer Protection,
Directorate of Industrial and Commercial Property Protection (Syrian Arab
Republic)

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[SY](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SY&doc-lang=EN)

Syrian Arab Republic - Ministry of Internal Trade and Consumer Protection,
Directorate of Industrial and Commercial Property Protection (Syrian Arab
Republic)

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Certificates of addition

Patents

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished later. If not already complied with
within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office
will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit
fixed in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

No

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Syrian Arab Republic

Language in which international applications may be filed:

Arabic,

English,

French

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

The Office has not specifically notified the International Bureau of the
language that it accepts under PCT Rule 12.1(d).

Same as above

Language in which the request may be filed:

Arabic,

English,

French

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

3

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”)

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
If the receiving Office does not accept international applications in
electronic form in such format, the international application will be
transmitted to the International Bureau as receiving Office (PCT Rule
19.4(a)(ii-_bis_)).

For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to Official Notices (PCT
Gazette) dated 28 April 2022, pages 103 _et seq._

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies both the “unintentional” and the “due care” criteria
to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[EG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EG&doc-lang=EN)

Egypt - Egyptian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[EG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EG&doc-lang=EN)

Egypt - Egyptian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

1,

[RU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=RU&doc-lang=EN)

Russian Federation - Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent)
(Russian Federation)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

5,000 SYP

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

235 USD

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

352 USD

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(AT)  
Annex D(EG)  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(RU)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

3,000 SYP

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

Please refer to the Office

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in the Syrian Arab Republic  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any patent attorney or patent agent registered before the Office or any
attorney or lawyer registered in the Syrian Arab Republic

Waiver of power of attorney:

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Refer to the Office

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Refer to the Office

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(3): 31 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Arabic

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

Applicant should only send a copy of the international application if he/she
has not received Form PCT/IB/308 and the Office has not received a copy of the
international application from the International Bureau under PCT Article 20.
This may be the case where the applicant expressly requests an earlier start
of the national phase under PCT Article 23(2).

National fees:

The amount in parentheses is applicable in case of filing by a natural person

Patents

Filing fee:

5,000 SYP

(250 SYP)

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Annual fees:

This amount is reduced by 90% for students and microenterprises

This amount is reduced by 50% for small enterprises

— for the 2nd year:

5,500 SYP

(300 SYP)

— for the 3rd year:

6,000 SYP

(350 SYP)

Examination fee:

20,000 SYP

(2,000 SYP)

Re-examination fee:

10,000 SYP

(1,000 SYP)

Additional fee for each page in excess of 30:

50 SYP

(10 SYP)

Additional fee for claims in excess of 10, the 11th and each subsequent claim:

500 SYP

(250 SYP)

Utility models

Filing fee:

4,000 SYP

(200 SYP)

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Annual fees:

— for the 2nd year

4,500 SYP

(250 SYP)

— for the 3rd year

5,000 SYP

(300 SYP)

Examination fee

10,000 SYP

(1,000 SYP)

Re-examination fee:

5,000 SYP

(500 SYP)

Additional fee for each page in excess of 30:

50 SYP

(10 SYP)

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in the Syrian Arab
Republic

Instrument of assignment of the international application if the applicant has
changed after the international filing date

Translation of the international application to be furnished in one copy

Who can act as agent?

Any patent attorney or patent agent registered before the Office or any
attorney or lawyer registered in the Syrian Arab Republic

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies both the “unintentional” and the “due care” criteria
to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

Information not yet available

##  Annexes

Annex SY.I - Fees

Information not yet available

Forms

Please refer to the Office.

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office or by the Austrian Patent Office.  

Change(s) as of 1 March 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

  

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

235 USD

  

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

352 USD

  

Close

Current version applicable from 1 Mar 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

