####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
TH - Useful informationTH - International PhaseTH - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationTH - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeTH - National PhaseTH - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseTH - The procedure in the national PhaseTH - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide TH - Thailand  
Department of Intellectual Property (DIP) (Thailand)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **15 September 2023**

(published on 15 September 2023)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
From now on, you will find here a summary of changes to each new version of
the PCT Applicant's Guide, as well as the detailed list of these changes.
Moreover, you can now easily access the historical versions of the Guide.  
  
RO: Number of copies  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for TH - Department of Intellectual Property \(DIP\) \(Thailand\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Department of Intellectual Property (DIP) (Thailand)

List of currencies used in this document:

CHF (Swiss franc), THB (Baht)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=TH).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Article 64(5)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Thailand

Two-letter code:

[TH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TH&doc-lang=EN)

Thailand - Department of Intellectual Property (DIP) (Thailand)

Name of Office:

Department of Intellectual Property (DIP) (Thailand)

Location:

563 Nonthaburi Road  
Bangkrasor  
Muang  
Nonthaburi 11000  
Thailand

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(66-2) 547 4304

E-mail:

ro-th-pct@ipthailand.go.th

Website:

<http://www.ipthailand.go.th>

Facsimile:

None

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

Yes

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[TH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TH&doc-lang=EN)

Thailand - Department of Intellectual Property (DIP) (Thailand)

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[TH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TH&doc-lang=EN)

Thailand - Department of Intellectual Property (DIP) (Thailand)

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Patents

Petty patents

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished later. If not already complied with
within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office
will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit
of ninety days from the date of receipt of the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Thailand

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3).

English,

Thai

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

English

Language in which the request may be filed:

English

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

For the relevant notifications by the Office, refer to Official Notices (PCT
Gazette) dated 3 February 2022, pages 36 _et seq._ and 24 November 2022, page
309.

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[CN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CN&doc-lang=EN)

China - China National Intellectual Property Administration (CNIPA)

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[JP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JP&doc-lang=EN)

Japan - Japan Patent Office (JPO)

,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[CN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CN&doc-lang=EN)

China - China National Intellectual Property Administration (CNIPA)

1,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

1,

[JP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JP&doc-lang=EN)

Japan - Japan Patent Office (JPO)

1,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

1,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

1

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

3,000 THB

International filing fee:

Equivalent in THB of 1,330 CHF

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

Equivalent in THB of 15 CHF

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

Equivalent in THB of 200 CHF

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

Equivalent in THB of 300 CHF

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(AU)  
Annex D(CN)  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(JP)  
Annex D(KR)  
Annex D(SG)  
Annex D(US)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

50 THB

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

None

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Thailand  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any patent attorney or patent agent registered before the Office

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Not applicable

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Not applicable

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Thai

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Where the translation of the international application furnished by the
applicant consists only in the translation of the international application
either as originally filed or as amended, the Office will invite the applicant
to furnish the missing translation of the international application; if the
missing translation of the international application is still not furnished
within the time limit applicable under Thai Patent Law, the international
application will be considered to be withdrawn

Under PCT Article 22: Request, description, claims (if amended, both as
originally filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article
19 ), any text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Request, description, claims, any text matter of
drawings, abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally
filed and as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary
examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

Yes, a copy is required only if the Office has not received a copy of the
international application from the International Bureau under PCT Article 20.
This may be the case where the applicant expressly requests an earlier start
of the national phase under PCT Article 23(2) or 40(2)

National fees:

Patents

Filing fee

500 THB

Petty patents

Filing fee

250 THB

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application 2 3

Document evidencing a change of name of the applicant 3

Statement justifying the applicant’s right to the invention 2

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in Thailand

Power of attorney if an agent is appointed 3

Who can act as agent?

Any patent attorney or patent agent registered before the Office

A list of patent agents may be obtained from the Office

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

TH.01 FORM FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

The Office has available a special form for entering the national phase (refer
to Annex TH.II). This form should preferably be used.

TH.02 TRANSLATION

If the translation furnished to the Office is not complete, the Office will
invite the applicant to furnish the missing translation within the time limit
fixed in the invitation. If the missing translation is not furnished within
this time limit, the international application will be considered withdrawn
(refer to National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

TH.03 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex TH.I.

TH.04 APPOINTMENT OF AN AGENT

If the applicant is not resident in Thailand, an agent shall be appointed by
submitting to the Office a power of attorney (refer to Annex TH.III), signed
by the applicant. Any patent attorney or patent agent registered before the
Office may act as agent.

A list of patent agents may be obtained from the Office

TH.05 INVENTOR

If the applicant is also the inventor, the request must be accompanied by a
statement of the applicant's right to apply for a patent or petty patent
(refer to Annex TH.IX).

TH.06 ANNUAL FEES

Annual fees for patents are payable for the fifth and each subsequent year
following the date of grant of the patent. Annual fees for petty patents are
payable for the fifth and each subsequent year, up to a maximum of 10 years,
following the date of grant of the petty patent. The amounts of the annual
fees are indicated in Annex TH.I.

TH.07 EXAMINATION

Requests for examination must be made, together with the payment of the
prescribed fees, within five years from the date of publication of the patent
application and within one year from the date of grant of the petty patent
(refer to Annex TH.X).

TH.08 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41  
The applicant may, at any time before the patent is granted, make amendments
to his application (refer to Annex TH.VII), with the payment of the prescribed
fee, provided that the amendment does not go beyond the disclosure in the
initial application.

TH.09 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. Where an international application is considered withdrawn,
the applicant may request reconsideration by the Office (refer to Annex TH.V).

TH.10 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2),  PCT Rule 49.6,  PCT Rule 82 _bis_  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.

TH.11 REINSTATEMENT OF RIGHTS

PCT Rule 49.6  
Reinstatement of rights may be requested where the applicant failed to observe
a time limit set by the Office in spite of due care, which is prejudicial to
his rights. A request for reinstatement must be presented in writing within
two months from the removal of the cause of the failure to observe the time
limit or 12 months from the date of expiration of the applicable time limit,
whichever time limit expires earlier. Within the said time limit, the omitted
action must be completed and a declaration or other evidence in support of the
request must be furnished (refer to Annex TH.IV).

TH.12 EARLY START OF NATIONAL PHASE

PCT Art. 23(2),  PCT Art. 40(2)  
If the applicant wishes the examination of his application by the Office to
start earlier than the expiration of the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), he shall file an express request in writing therefore
(refer to Annex TH.VI) and submit the basic national fee, a copy of the
international application, a translation of the international application, an
international search report, a written opinion of the International Searching
Authority, the international preliminary examination report (if any) and an
oath or declaration of the inventor.

TH.13 PETTY PATENT

PCT Art. 43,  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1(a)  
Subject to paragraph TH.14, if the applicant wishes to obtain a petty patent
instead of a patent in Thailand, on the basis of an international application,
the applicant, when entering the national phase, shall so indicate to the
Office. Annual fees for petty patents are payable for the fifth and the sixth
years. Extension fees are due for the seventh and eighth years (first
extension) and the ninth and tenth years (second extension). The amounts of
the fees are indicated in Annex TH.I.

TH.14 CONVERSION

A patent application may be converted, at the request of the applicant (refer
to Annex TH.VIII), into an application for a petty patent prior to the date on
which the decision to grant a patent is published. An application for a petty
patent may be converted, at the request of the applicant, into a patent
application at any time before the decision to grant a petty patent has been
taken. The converted application shall have the filing date of the initial
application. A fee for requesting conversion is due (refer to Annex TH.I).

##  Annexes

Annex TH.I - Fees

Patents

Filing fee

500 THB

Publication fee

250 THB

Request for examination fee

250 THB

Registration fee

500 THB

Opposition fee

250 THB

Additional fee for furnishing certain documents after entry into the national
phase

50 THB

Assignment recordal fee

250 THB

Licensing certificate fee

500 THB

Appeal fee

500 THB

Conversion fee

100 THB

Annual fees:

— for the 5th year

1,000 THB

— for the 6th year

1,200 THB

— for the 7th year

1,600 THB

— for the 8th year

2,200 THB

— for the 9th year

3,000 THB

— for the 10th year

4,000 THB

— for the 11th year

5,200 THB

— for the 12th year

6,600 THB

— for the 13th year

8,200 THB

— for the 14th year

10,000 THB

— for the 15th year

12,000 THB

— for the 16th year

14,200 THB

— for the 17th year

16,600 THB

— for the 18th year

19,200 THB

— for the 19th year

22,000 THB

— for the 20th year

25,000 THB

— for the single payment of all annual fees due for the 5th to the 20th year

140,000 THB

Petty Patents

Filing fee

250 THB

Publication and registration fee

500 THB

Request for examination fee

250 THB

Additional fee for furnishing certain documents after entry into the national
phase

50 THB

Assignment recordal fee

250 THB

Licensing certificate fee

500 THB

Appeal fee

500 THB

Conversion fee

100 THB

Annual fees:

— for the 5th year

750 THB

— for the 6th year

1,500 THB

— for the single payment of the annual fees due for the 5th and the 6th years

2,000 THB

Extension fees:

— for the first extension (the 7th and 8th years)

6,000 THB

— for the second extension (the 9th and 10th years)

9,000 THB

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of the fees has to be effected in Baht. All payments must indicate
the application number  
(national, if already known; international, if the national application number
is not yet known), the name of the applicant and the category of fee being
paid.

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex TH.II - Form for entering the national
phase](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_th.pdf)

[Annex TH.III - Model of power of
attorney](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_th.pdf)

[Annex TH.IV - Form for restoration of the right of
priority](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_IV_th.pdf)

[Annex TH.V - Form for the reinstatement of
rights](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_V_th.pdf)

[Annex TH.VI - Request for earlier start of the national
phase](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_VI_th.pdf)

[Annex TH.VII - Form for amendment of the
application](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_VII_th.pdf)

[Annex TH.VIII - Form for
conversion](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_VIII_th.pdf)

[Annex TH.IX - Statement of applicant’s right to apply for a patent/petty
patent](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_IX_th.pdf)

[Annex TH.X - Request for
examination](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_X_th.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a b c d e The Office is competent only if the international search is or
has been carried out by that Office.  
2 ^ a b This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  
3 ^ a b c If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under
PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with
the requirement and to pay the required fee within a time limit of 90 days
from the date of receipt of the invitation.  

Change(s) as of 15 September 2023 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference.
Mouse hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

  

Close

Current version applicable from 15 Sep 2023 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

