####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
TN - Useful informationTN - International PhaseTN - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationTN - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeTN - National PhaseTN - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseTN - The procedure in the national PhaseTN - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide TN - Tunisia  
National Institute for Standardization and Industrial Property (INNORPI)
(Tunisia)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **15 September 2023**

(published on 15 September 2023)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
From now on, you will find here a summary of changes to each new version of
the PCT Applicant's Guide, as well as the detailed list of these changes.
Moreover, you can now easily access the historical versions of the Guide.  
  
RO: Languages, Electronic filing  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for TN - National Institute for Standardization and Industrial Property
\(INNORPI\) \(Tunisia\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: National Institute for Standardization and Industrial Property
(INNORPI) (Tunisia)

LPI: Law No. 2000-84 of 24 August 2000, on patents

D836: Decree n° 2001-836 of April 10, 2001, fixing the amount of royalties
related to patents

List of currencies used in this document:

CHF (Swiss franc), TND (Tunisian dinar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=TN).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Article 64(5)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Tunisia

Two-letter code:

[TN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TN&doc-lang=EN)

Tunisia - National Institute for Standardization and Industrial Property
(INNORPI) (Tunisia)

Name of Office:

National Institute for Standardization and Industrial Property (INNORPI)
(Tunisia)

Location:

Rue de l’assistance n° 8 par la rue Alain Savary  
Cité El Khadra  
1003 Tunis  
Tunisia

Mailing address:

B. P. 57  
Cité El Khadra  
1003 Tunis  
Tunisia

Telephone:

(216-71) 80 67 58

E-mail:

innorpi@planet.tn

Website:

<http://www.innorpi.tn>

Facsimile:

(216-71) 80 70 71

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[TN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TN&doc-lang=EN)

Tunisia - National Institute for Standardization and Industrial Property
(INNORPI) (Tunisia)

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[TN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TN&doc-lang=EN)

Tunisia - National Institute for Standardization and Industrial Property
(INNORPI) (Tunisia)

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents

European:

Validation of European patents

For international applications filed on or after 1 December 2017 (refer to OJ
EPO 10/2017, A85)

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request. If the data concerning the inventor are missing at the
expiry of the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)(a), the
Office will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time
limit fixed in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

No

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Tunisia

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3).

Arabic,

English,

French

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Same language as the international application (Arabic, English or French)

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

3

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notifications by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 21 November 2019, pages 182 _et seq._ and 21 July 2022,
pages 189 _et seq._

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C
of the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, please refer to the Office for the applicable criteria and/or any fee
payable for such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

100 TND

International filing fee:

1,330 CHF

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

15 CHF

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

200 CHF

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

300 CHF

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EP)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

30 TND

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Tunisia  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any natural or legal person resident in Tunisia

Waiver of power of attorney:

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Refer to the Office

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Refer to the Office

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Arabic,

English,

French

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, as amended only, any
text matter of drawings, abstract)

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, only as amended by the
annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Fees are subject to value added tax (VAT) of 19%

Filing fee and 1st annual fee

140 TND

Claim fee for each claim in excess of 10

per claim 30 TND

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

Document evidencing a change of name of the applicant if the change occurred
after the international filing date and has not been reflected in a
notification from the International Bureau (Form PCT/IB/306)

Representation by an agent if the applicant is not resident in Tunisia

Instrument appointing the agent (authorization or power of attorney)

Who can act as agent?

Any natural or legal person resident in Tunisa

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, please refer to the Office for the applicable criteria and/or any fee
payable for such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

TN.01 FORM FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

The Office has available a form for a patent application and its annexes,
which can be downloaded from its website (refer to Annex TN.II).

TN.02 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

PCT Art. 46  
Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as originally
filed (refer to National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

TN.03 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex TN.I.

TN.04 APPOINTMENT OF AN AGENT

LPI Art. 20  
If the applicant is not resident in Tunisia, an agent resident in Tunisia
shall be appointed. A power of attorney is required.

TN.05 EXAMINATION

LPI Art. 29,  LPI Art. 30  
The Office carries out formal and substantive examination on patent
applications. In the event of non-compliance, the Office shall invite the
applicant to amend his application or to make observations within a period of
three months from the notification. If, within that period, the applicant
brings his application into conformity in accordance with the notification of
the Office, the examination of the application shall be resumed subject to the
payment of a fee, the amount of which shall be fixed by decree. Failing this,
the Office shall reject the application.

TN.06 DIVISIONAL APPLICATIONS

LPI Art. 27  
Until publication of the application, the applicant may file divisional
applications which will have the same filing date and, where applicable, the
same priority date as the international application which has entered the
national phase.

TN.07 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  LPI Art. 26,  LPI Art. 28,  D836 Annex  
Until publication, the applicant may amend the application, including the
formulation of new claims, provided that they do not go beyond the disclosure
made in the initial application. Until the date of grant of the patent, the
applicant may, upon justified request, ask for the rectification of errors of
expression or transcription, as well as errors in the filed documents.

TN.08 ANNUAL FEES

LPI Art. 52  
An annual fee for the maintenance of the patent application and patent is due
for each year of the patent term. It shall be paid annually and shall fall due
on the last day of the month of the anniversary of the filing date of the
patent application. Where payment of an annual fee has not been made by the
due date, the applicant shall have a period of six months in which to make
payment of the said fee, subject to payment of a late fee.

##  Annexes

Annex TN.I - Fees

Fees are subjected to a value added tax (VAT) of 19%

Filing fee and first annual fee

140 TND

Claim fee for each claim in excess of 10

30 TND

Annual fees:

— from the 2nd to the 5th year

per year 50 TND

— from the 6th to the 10th year

per year 130 TND

— from the 11th to the 15th year

per year 265 TND

— from the 16th to the 20th year

per year 500 TND

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of fees must be effected in Tunisian dinar. All payments must
indicate the national application number, the name of the applicant and the
category of fee being paid

The payment of fees may be effected by cash or check

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex TN.II - Form for request for filing of patent application for a patent
of invention](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_tn.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Change(s) as of 15 September 2023 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference.
Mouse hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Same language as the international application (Arabic, English or French)

  

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notifications by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 21 November 2019, pages 182 _et seq._ and 21 July 2022,
pages 189 _et seq._

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C
of the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

  

Close

Current version applicable from 15 Sep 2023 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

