####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * ISA
  * SISA
  * IPEA
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
TR - Useful informationTR - International PhaseTR - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationTR - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeTR - Annex D - International Searching AuthorityTR - Annex SISA -
International Searching Authority (Supplementary Search)TR - Annex E -
International Preliminary Examining AuthorityTR - Annex L - Deposits of
Microorganisms and Other Biological MaterialTR - National PhaseTR - Summary of
requirements for entry into the national phaseTR - The procedure in the
national PhaseTR - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide TR - Türkİye  
Turkish Patent and Trademark Office (Turkpatent)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **1 April 2024**

(published on 26 March 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
ISA: ISA fees  
SISA: IB fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Jan 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for TR - Turkish Patent and Trademark Office \(Turkpatent\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Turkish Patent and Trademark Office (Turkpatent)

IPL: Law No 6769 of 10 January 2017 on Industrial Property

Law TPI: Law No 5000 for the Establishment and the Functions of the Turkish
Patent and Trademark Office (Turkpatent)

List of currencies used in this document:

CHF (Swiss franc), EUR (Euro), TRY (Turkish Lira), USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=TR).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Rule 20.8(b), Rule 20.8(b-_bis_)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).  
PCT Rule 20.8(b-_bis_), The Offices (in their capacity as designated Offices)
of the States listed in this table have notified the International Bureau (IB)
that PCT Rules 20.5 _bis_(a)(ii) and 20.5 _bis_(d), are not compatible and/or
cannot be considered to be compatible with the national law applied by the
Office, or are deemed to have notified the IB of this incompatibility on the
basis of a notification made under PCT Rule 20.8(b) that remains in effect.

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Türkiye

Two-letter code:

[TR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TR&doc-lang=EN)

Türkiye - Turkish Patent and Trademark Office (Turkpatent)

Name of Office:

Turkish Patent and Trademark Office (Turkpatent)

Location:

Hipodrom Caddesi No. 13  
06560 Yenimahalle  
Ankara  
Türkiye

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(90-312) 303 10 00  
Patent Dept.  
(90-312) 303 11 82

E-mail:

contact@turkpatent.gov.tr

Website:

<http://www.turkpatent.gov.tr>

Facsimile:

(90-312) 303 11 73  
(90-312) 303 12 20 (Patent Dept.)

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

provided that the delivery service is DHL

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

For further details refer to:
<https://www.wipo.int/das/en/participating_offices/details.jsp?id=12457>

Yes, the Office is prepared to allow applicants to make international and
national applications available to the WIPO DAS

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[TR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TR&doc-lang=EN)

Türkiye - Turkish Patent and Trademark Office (Turkpatent)

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Law No. 6769 of 22 December 2016, on Industrial Property, Art. 124(9)

A resident of Türkiye must file an international application concerning a
subject matter of significance for national security directly with the Turkish
Patent and Trademark Office (Turkpatent)

Yes

Filing restrictions apply to:

Applications by residents

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: TR

European patent: EP

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents

Patents of addition

Utility models

European:

Patents

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a national patent:

An international patent application designating Türkiye benefits from
provisional protection as from the date on which a translation of the
application as submitted by the applicant has been published by the Turkish
Patent and Trademark Office (Turkpatent) or has been notified to the alleged
infringer (Law No. 6769 of 22 December 2016, on Industrial Property, Art.
97(4) and (5)).

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a European patent:

A published European patent application designating Türkiye benefits from
provisional protection as from the date on which a translation of the claims
as submitted by the applicant has been published by the Turkish Patent and
Trademark Office (Turkpatent) or has been notified to the alleged infringer
(Implementing Regulations to the Convention on the Grant of European Patents
(EPC) (as amended by Regulations No. 26883 of 22 May 2008, Art.8)).

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

For national protection

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If the data concerning the inventor are not in the
request, they must be furnished within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1).

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

For a European patent

Refer to [Annex B(EP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=ep&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Türkiye

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3).

If the language in which the international application is filed is not a
language of publication and no translation is required for the purposes of
international search (PCT Rule 12.3(a)), the applicant will have to furnish a
translation of the application into English, French or German (PCT Rule
12.4(a))

English,

French,

German,

Turkish

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

English,

or the same language as the international application (French, German or
Turkish),

or English and another filing language

Language in which the request may be filed:

English,

French,

German

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notifications by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 28 May 2015, pages 87 _et seq._ and 22 September 2022,
pages 263 _et seq._

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[TR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TR&doc-lang=EN)

Türkiye - Turkish Patent and Trademark Office (Turkpatent)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[TR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TR&doc-lang=EN)

Türkiye - Turkish Patent and Trademark Office (Turkpatent)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

None

International filing fee:

1,330 CHF

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

15 CHF

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

200 CHF

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

300 CHF

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(TR)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

30 CHF

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

None

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Türkiye  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any natural or legal person registered to practice as a patent attorney before
the Office

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Where there is an unresolved dispute about who is the agent representing the
applicant(s); or upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent
or a common representative who was not indicated in the request form at the
time of filing.

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Where there is an unresolved dispute about who is the agent representing the
applicant(s); or upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent
or a common representative who was not indicated in the request form at the
time of filing.

##  Annex D - International Searching Authority

International Searching Authority competent for the following Receiving
Offices:

[IQ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IQ&doc-lang=EN)

Iraq - Iraqi Patent Office (IQPO)

,

[TR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TR&doc-lang=EN)

Türkiye - Turkish Patent and Trademark Office (Turkpatent)

Search fee (PCT Rule 16):

1,751 CHF

1,845 EUR

61,090 TRY

1,989 USD

This fee is payable to the receiving Office in the currency or one of the
currencies accepted by it.

Additional search fee (PCT Rule 40.2):

61,090 TRY

This fee is payable to the International Searching Authority and only in
particular circumstances.

Fee for copies of documents cited in the international search report (PCT Rule
44.3):

per document 1.50 TRY

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.1 _ter_):

per document 1.50 TRY

Protest fee (PCT Rule 40.2(e)):

1,000 TRY

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rule 13 _ter_.1(c)):

200 TRY

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the search fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded

Where the international application is withdrawn or is considered withdrawn,
under PCT Article 14(1), (3) or (4), before the start of the international
search:  
refund of 100%

Where the Authority benefits from the results of an earlier search:  
refund of 50%

Languages accepted for international search:

English,

Turkish

Does the Authority accept informal comments on earlier search results where an
international application claims priority from an earlier application already
searched by this Authority?

No

Types of physical media accepted for the furnishing of nucleotide and/or amino
acid sequence listings:

The entire printable copy of the sequence listing and identifying data should
be contained within one text file on a single CD-ROM, CD-R, DVD or DVD-R

Subject matter that will not be searched:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 39.1 with the
exception of any subject matter searched under the patent grant procedure in
accordance with the provisions of Turkish patent law

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Where there is an unresolved dispute about who is the agent representing the
applicant(s); or upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent
or a common representative who was not indicated in the request form at the
time of filing.

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Where there is an unresolved dispute about who is the agent representing the
applicant(s); or upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent
or a common representative who was not indicated in the request form at the
time of filing.

##  Annex SISA - International Searching Authority (Supplementary Search)

Fees payable to the International Bureau:

For further details on the payment of fees to the International Bureau, refer
to the WIPO website at <http://www.wipo.int/pct/en/fees/special.html>

Supplementary search fee (PCT Rule 45 _bis_.3):

— for a full search

1,751 CHF

— for a search only on the documents in Turkish held in the search collection
of the Authority

47 CHF

Supplementary search handling fee (PCT Rule 45 _bis_.2):

200 CHF

Late payment fee (PCT Rule 45 _bis_.4(c)):

100 CHF

Fees payable to the Authority:

Fee for copies of documents cited in the supplementary international search
report (PCT Rule 45 _bis_.7(c)):

per document 1.50 TRY

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.1 _ter_):

per document 1.50 TRY

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rules 13 _ter_.1(c) and 45 _bis_.5(c)):

200 EUR

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the supplementary search fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded

The Authority shall refund this fee if, before it has started the
supplementary international search in accordance with PCT Rule 45 _bis_.5(a),
the supplementary search request is considered not to have been submitted
under PCT Rule 45 _bis_.5(g):  
refund of 100%

Languages accepted for supplementary international search:

English,

Turkish

Subject matter that will not be searched:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 39.1 with the
exception of any subject matter searched under the patent grant procedure in
accordance with the provisions of Turkish patent law

Scope of documentation included in the supplementary international search:

In addition to PCT minimum documentation, the Authority shall include at least
the documents in Turkish held in its search collection

Limitations on supplementary international search:

The Authority shall notify the International Bureau if the demand for
supplementary international search clearly exceeds the resources available and
also when normal conditions have been reestablished

Types of physical media accepted for the furnishing of nucleotide and/or amino
acid sequence listings:

The entire printable copy of the sequence listing and identifying data should
be contained within one text file on a single CD-ROM,  
CD-R, DVD or DVD-R.

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Where there is an unresolved dispute about who is the agent representing the
applicant(s); or upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent
or a common representative who was not indicated in the request form at the
time of filing.

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Where there is an unresolved dispute about who is the agent representing the
applicant(s); or upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent
or a common representative who was not indicated in the request form at the
time of filing.

##  Annex E - International Preliminary Examining Authority

International Preliminary Examining Authority competent for the following
Receiving Offices:

[IQ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IQ&doc-lang=EN)

Iraq - Iraqi Patent Office (IQPO)

,

[TR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TR&doc-lang=EN)

Türkiye - Turkish Patent and Trademark Office (Turkpatent)

Preliminary examination fee (PCT Rule 58):

1,000 TRY

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority.

Additional preliminary examination fee (PCT Rule 68.3):

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority and
only in particular circumstances.

1,000 TRY

Handling fee (PCT Rule 57.1):

200 CHF

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority. It
is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee for copies of documents cited in the international preliminary examination
report (PCT Rule 71.2):

per document 1,50 TRY

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.2):

per document 1,50 TRY

Protest fee (PCT Rule 68.3(e)):

1,000 TRY

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rule 13 _ter_.2):

200 TRY

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the preliminary examination fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded

In the cases provided for under PCT Rule 58.3:  
refund of 100%

If the international application or the demand is withdrawn before the start
of the international preliminary examination:  
refund of 100%

Languages accepted for international preliminary examination:

English,

Turkish

Subject matter that will not be examined:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 67.1 with the
exception of any subject matter examined under the patent grant procedure in
accordance with the provisions of Turkish patent law

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Where there is an unresolved dispute about who is the agent representing the
applicant(s); or upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent
or a common representative who was not indicated in the request form at the
time of filing

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Where there is an unresolved dispute about who is the agent representing the
applicant(s); or upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent
or a common representative who was not indicated in the request form at the
time of filing

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

None

— any additional indications:

At the time of filing (must be in the description)

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, relevant information on the
characteristics of the microorganism

Additional information

Deposits may also be made for the purposes of patent procedure before the
Turkish Patent and Trademark Office (Turkpatent) with any depositary
institution specialized for that purpose.

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

33 months from the priority date provided the applicant pays the fee for
requesting extension of time for entry into the national phase

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished within two months from the date of entry into the national
phase

Turkish

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished within two months from the date of entry into the national
phase

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, as amended only,
together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any text matter of
drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, only as amended by the
annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

Must be paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1).
However, the national fee may still be paid within three months from the date
of entry into the national phase, provided that an additional fee is paid with
the national fee within that period

Patents or utility models

Filing fee

— for patents

5,800 TRY

— for utility models

3,630 TRY

Fee for certificate of grant

1,050 TRY

Renewal fee for the 3rd year

— for patents

1,050 TRY

— for utility models

860 TRY

Reinstatement of rights

5,730 TRY

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Statement justifying the applicant’s right to file the application if the
applicant is not the inventor 1

Statement justifying the applicant’s right to file the application if the
applicant is not the owner of the priority right 1

Statement justifying the applicant’s right to file the application if the
applicant is not the same as the international applicant

Any evidence concerning non-prejudicial disclosures or exceptions to lack of
novelty, such as disclosures resulting from abuse, disclosures at certain
exhibitions and disclosures by the applicant within a period of 12 months
preceding the international filing date, or if priority is claimed, preceding
the priority date

Where the person of the applicant has changed after entry into the national
phase, a document of assignment and a power of attorney

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in Türkiye

Who can act as agent?

Any natural or legal person registered to practice as a patent attorney before
the Office

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies the “due care” criterion to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

TR.01 FORM FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

The Office has available a special form for entering the national phase (refer
to Annex TR.II). This form should preferably (but need not) be used. The
Office also has available a special form for entering the national phase which
may be filed electronically using the Office’s Online Filing system (EPATS).
The Office strongly recommends that applicants use EPATS. The form is
available on the Office’s website at:
<https://epats.turkpatent.gov.tr/run/TP/EDEVLET/giris>

TR.02 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

TR.03 LANGUAGE OF PROCEEDINGS

The language of proceedings is Turkish.

TR.04 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this chapter
is indicated in Annex TR.I.

TR.05 POWER OF ATTORNEY

Where an agent is appointed, a power of attorney must be furnished. It may not
be necessary to file a copy of the power of attorney unless under special
circumstances. A model is given in Annex TR.III.

TR.06 FORMAL EXAMINATION

IPL Art. 95  
The Office carries out an examination as to formal requirements. If the
application contains formal defects, the Office invites the applicant to
submit corrections and/or amendments.

TR.07 PUBLICATION

IPL Art. 97  
The application is published in Turkish soon after the Turkish translation is
filed.

TR.08 REQUEST FOR SEARCH

No special request for search need be filed and no search fee is required if
an international search report has been established. If no international
search report has been established, a special request for search must be
filed, and the corresponding search fee must be paid. The amount of the search
fee is indicated in Annex TR.I.

TR.09 REQUEST FOR EXAMINATION

IPL Art. 98  
The applicant must request examination within three months from the date of
the notification of the availability of the search report and pay the fee
(refer to Annex TR.I) or the application shall be considered as withdrawn. The
Office shall examine whether the patent application and the invention to which
it relates meet the requirements of IP Law No. 6769. If this is not the case,
the Office shall invite the applicant to file observations and to amend the
application. However, such invitations will not be issued more than three
times. If the applicant fails to reply in due time to any communication from
the Office, the application shall be deemed to be withdrawn.

TR.10 DIVISIONAL APPLICATIONS

IPL Art. 91  
Where the application lacks unity of invention, the applicant will be invited
to file divisional applications which will benefit from the same filing date
and any applicable priority date as the international application which
entered the national phase.

TR.11 AMENDMENTS AND CORRECTIONS; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  IPL Art. 103  
Amendments to the patent application may be made, provided that the subject
matter of the patent application does not go beyond the disclosure of the
application as filed. In the event of an opposition, the patent may be amended
provided that the protection conferred by the patent shall not be extended,
until a final decision regarding the opposition is made by the Office.

TR.12 ANNUAL FEES

IPL Art. 101(2)  
Annual fees are due for the third year and each subsequent year. Annual fees
are due on the anniversary of the international filing date. Annual fees not
paid within the applicable time limit may still be paid within six months from
the expiration of that time limit subject to the payment of a surcharge. If
annual fees together with the surcharge for late payment are not paid within
the specified period, the patent shall lapse. The patent may be restored upon
request of the patent owner and payment of a recovery fee.

TR.13 REVIEW UNDER PCT ARTICLE 25

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51,  Law TPI Art. 10  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase.

TR.14 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2),  PCT Rule 82 _bis_  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.

TR.15 RESTORATION OF THE RIGHT OF PRIORITY

PCT Rule 49 _ter_.2  
Where the international application was filed within two months from the end
of the period for claiming priority of an earlier application, a request for
restoration of the right of priority may be made to the Office in accordance
with the national law (refer to National Phase, paragraphs 6.006 to 6.011).
Such a request will be granted if the Office is satisfied that the failure to
file the application within the 12-month priority period occurred in spite of
due care required by the circumstances. The amount of the fee for restoration
of the right of priority is indicated in Annex TR.I.

TR.16 REINSTATEMENT OF RIGHTS

PCT Rule 49.6,  IPL Art. 107  
If an applicant fails to observe a time limit set by the Office, he may
request further processing of the patent application within two months from
the communication concerning the failure to observe a time limit. An applicant
for or proprietor of a patent who, in spite of all due care required by the
circumstances having been taken, was unable to observe a time limit set by the
Office shall have his rights re-established upon request if the non-observance
of this time limit results in the refusal of the patent application, the
application being considered withdrawn, the revocation of the patent according
to article 99 or the loss of any other right. A request for re-establishment
of rights shall be filed in writing. The prescribed fee shall be paid within
two months of the removal of the cause of non-compliance with the time limit,
but at the latest within one year of expiry of the unobserved time limit.

TR.17 PATENTS OF ADDITION

IPL Rule 86  
In respect of patents of addition, the main patent application shall not be
considered as the state of the art in the evaluation of inventive step.

TR.18 CONVERSION FROM PATENT TO UTILITY MODEL AND VICE VERSA

IPL Art. 104  
An application for a patent may be converted into an application for a utility
model and _vice versa_. For the applicable amount of the fee, refer to Annex
TR.I.

##  Annexes

Annex TR.I - Fees

Patents

Filing fee

5,800 TRY

Fee for extension requested for the filing of the application

2,940 TRY

Fee for requesting extension of time

270 TRY

Fee for requesting search report

(i) Up to 10 applications for natural persons, up to 100 applications for
universities

870 TRY

(ii) Applications which are not under the scope of (i)

1,780 TRY

Fee for requesting examination report:

(i) Up to 10 applications for natural persons, up to 100 applications for
universities

870 TRY

(ii) Applications which are not under the scope of (i)

1,780 TRY

Fee for certificate of grant

1,050 TRY

According to Articles 98(7) and 143(10) of IP Law No. 6769, the payment of the
fee for the certificate of grant is not required for the purpose of
publication of the mention of the grant of the patent. After the publication
of the mention of the grant of the patent, upon request and upon the payment
of the fee for preparation of the patent/utility model certificate (grant
fee), the patentee shall receive said certificate

Fee for converting a utility model application into a patent application

150 TRY

Fee for search report for converting a utility model application into a patent
application

1,080 TRY

Publication fee for the Turkish translation of the claims of a European patent
application

5,560 TRY

Publication fee for the Turkish translation of the specification of a European
patent

8,910 TRY

Fee for extension of time for the publication of the Turkish translation of
the specification of a European patent

5,040 TRY

Fee for further processing

1,440 TRY

Fee for re-establishment of rights

5,730 TRY

Fee for reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)

9,990 TRY

Fee for restoration of the right of priority

5,730 TRY

Annual fees:

— for the 2nd year 2

1,030 TRY

— for the 3rd year 2

1,050 TRY

— for the 4th year

1,210 TRY

— for the 5th year

1,710 TRY

— for the 6th year

2,160 TRY

— for the 7th year

2,400 TRY

— for the 8th year

2,680 TRY

— for the 9th year

2,910 TRY

— for the 10th year

3,180 TRY

— for the 11th year

3,600 TRY

— for the 12th year

4,180 TRY

— for the 13th year

4,810 TRY

— for the 14th year

5,440 TRY

— for the 15th year

6,250 TRY

— for the 16th year

6,830 TRY

— for the 17th year

7,580 TRY

— for the 18th year

8,100 TRY

— for the 19th year

8,540 TRY

— for the 20th year

8,900 TRY

Surcharge for late payment of an annual fee

the annual fee to be paid  
plus 1 TRY

Recovery fee for the payment of an annual fee

1.5 times the annual fee to be paid

Utility models

Filing fee

3,630 TRY

Fee for extension requested for the filing of the application

1,840 TRY

Fee for extension for the submission of the request for reinstatement

6,270 TRY

Fee for requesting extension of time

270 TRY

Fee for certificate of grant

1,050 TRY

According to Articles 98(7) and 143(10) of IP Law No. 6769, the payment of the
fee for the certificate of grant is not required for the purpose of
publication of the mention of the grant of the patent. After the publication
of the mention of the grant of the patent, upon request and upon the payment
of the fee for preparation of the patent/utility model certificate (grant
fee), the patentee shall receive said certificate

Fee for converting a patent application into a utility model application

150 TRY

Fee for requesting search report for utility model application:

(i) Up to 10 applications for natural persons, up to 100 applications for
universities

870 TRY

(ii) Applications which are not under the scope of (i)

1,780 TRY

Fee for search report for converting a patent application into a utility model
application

1,080 TRY

Fee for further processing

1,440 TRY

Fee for re-establishment of rights

5,730 TRY

Annual fees:

— for the 2nd year

840 TRY

— for the 3rd year

860 TRY

— for the 4th year

990 TRY

— for the 5th year

1,340 TRY

— for the 6th year

1,680 TRY

— for the 7th year

1,870 TRY

— for the 8th year

2,030 TRY

— for the 9th year

2,220 TRY

— for the 10th year

2,430 TRY

Surcharge for late payment of an annual fee

Approximately 1.25 times the annual fee to be paid. For exact amount please
refer to Office web page

Recovery fee for the payment of an annual fee

Approximately 1.5 times the annual fee to be paid. For exact amount please
refer to Office web page

How can payment of fees be effected?

Payments may be made by bank transfer to the following accounts of the Turkish
Patent and Trademark Office (Turkpatent):

_Ziraat Bankası_

TRY  
SWIFT  
TCZBTR2A  
IBAN  
TR450001001745342721325280

USD  
SWIFT  
TCZBTR2A  
IBAN  
TR280001001745342721325295

EUR  
SWIFT  
TCZBTR2A  
IBAN  
TR980001001745342721325296

CHF  
SWIFT  
TCZBTR2A  
IBAN  
TR710001001745342721325297

 _Halk Bankası_

TRY  
SWIFT  
TRHBTR2A  
IBAN  
TR340001200940900006000004

USD  
SWIFT  
TRHBTR2A  
IBAN  
TR400001200940900053000082

EUR  
SWIFT  
TRHBTR2A  
IBAN  
TR200001200940900058000016

CHF  
SWIFT  
TRHBTR2A  
IBAN  
TR630001200940900073000001

 _Vakıflar Bankası_

TRY  
SWIFT  
TVBATR2A  
IBAN  
TR180001500158007283203102

USD  
SWIFT  
TVBATR2A  
IBAN  
TR140001500158048015066717

EUR  
SWIFT  
TVBATR2A  
IBAN  
TR090001500158048015066710

CHF  
SWIFT  
TVBATR2A  
IBAN  
TR150001500158048015066699

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex TR.II - National form for PCT
applications](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_tr.pdf)

[Annex TR.III - Power of
attorney](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_tr.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a b This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  
2 ^ a b For international applications which entered the national phase before
10 January 2017, annual fees are due for the second year and each subsequent
year. For international applications which entered the national phase on or
after 10 January 2017, annual fees are due for the third year and each
subsequent year (refer to Article 101(2) of IP Law No. 6769).  

Change(s) as of 1 April 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex D - International Searching Authority

Search fee (PCT Rule 16):

1,751 CHF

1,845 EUR

61,090 TRY

1,989 USD

This fee is payable to the receiving Office in the currency or one of the
currencies accepted by it.

  

Additional search fee (PCT Rule 40.2):

61,090 TRY

This fee is payable to the International Searching Authority and only in
particular circumstances.

  

  
Annex SISA - International Searching Authority (Supplementary Search)

— for a full search

1,751 CHF

  

Close

Current version applicable from 1 Apr 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

