####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
TZ - Useful informationTZ - International PhaseTZ - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationTZ - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeTZ - National PhaseTZ - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseTZ - The procedure in the national PhaseTZ - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide TZ - United Republic of Tanzania  
Business Registrations and Licensing Agency, Ministry of Industry and Trade
(United Republic of Tanzania)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **15 September 2023**

(published on 15 September 2023)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
From now on, you will find here a summary of changes to each new version of
the PCT Applicant's Guide, as well as the detailed list of these changes.
Moreover, you can now easily access the historical versions of the Guide.  
  
  

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for TZ - Business Registrations and Licensing Agency, Ministry of Industry and
Trade \(United Republic of Tanzania\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Business Registrations and Licensing Agency, Ministry of Industry and
Trade (United Republic of Tanzania)

List of currencies used in this document:

TZS (Tanzanian Shilling)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=TZ).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Article 22(1) (Decision of the Assembly of the PCT Union of October 3, 2001
(PCT/A/30/7, Annex IV))  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

United Republic of Tanzania

Two-letter code:

[TZ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TZ&doc-lang=EN)

United Republic of Tanzania - Business Registrations and Licensing Agency,
Ministry of Industry and Trade (United Republic of Tanzania)

Name of Office:

Business Registrations and Licensing Agency, Ministry of Industry and Trade
(United Republic of Tanzania)

Location:

BRELA Office Plot No. 23  
Block No. 20 Shaaban Robert/Sokoine Drive Junction  
Dar es Salaam  
United Republic of Tanzania

Mailing address:

P.O. Box 9393  
Dar es Salaam  
United Republic of Tanzania

Telephone:

(255-22) 218 13 44  
(255-22) 218 01 13  
(255-22) 218 01 41  
(255-22) 221 28 00

E-mail:

ceo@brela.go.tz  
maoni@brela.go.tz

Website:

None

Facsimile:

(255-22) 218 03 71

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[AP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AP&doc-lang=EN)

African Regional Intellectual Property Organization - African Regional
Intellectual Property Organization (ARIPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: TZ

ARIPO protection: AP

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents

ARIPO:

Patents

Utility models (a utility model may be sought instead of or in addition to an
ARIPO patent)

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

Section 26 of the Patents Act

Provisional protection after international publication:

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a national patent:

Relief may be sought in respect of acts committed before the grant of the
patent but after the date on which the international publication was effected
in English. Where the international publication was effected in a language
other than English, relief may be sought provided that the applicant had
transmitted an English translation of the international application to the
infringer and only in respect of acts committed by the latter after he had
received the translation.

Where the designation is made for the purposes of an ARIPO patent:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

For national protection

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If not already complied with within the time limit
applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant
to comply with the requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

No

For an ARIPO patent

Refer to [Annex B(AP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=AP&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

The Office does not act as receiving Office

This Office has delegated its RO functions to RO/AP. Refer to [Annex
C(AP)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AP&doc-
lang=EN&doc-type=ANNEX) for more information.

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(3): 21 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

English

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, as amended only,
together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any text matter of
drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, only as amended by the
annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Patents

Filing fee

12,000 TZS

Utility certificates

Filing fee

10,000 TZS

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Name and address of the inventor if they have not been furnished in the
“Request” part of the international application 1

Document evidencing a change of name of the applicant if the change occurred
after the international filing date and has not been reflected in a
notification from the International Bureau (Form PCT/IB/306) 1

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in the United
Republic of Tanzania

Who can act as agent?

Any patent attorney or patent agent registered to practice before the Office

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, please refer to the Office for the applicable criteria and/or any fee
payable for such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

Information not yet available

##  Annexes

Annex TZ.I - Fees

Information not yet available

Forms

Please refer to the Office.

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a b This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  

Change(s) as of 15 September 2023 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference.
Mouse hover the text to consult previous value)

Close

Current version applicable from 15 Sep 2023 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

