####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * ISA
  * SISA
  * IPEA
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
UA - Useful informationUA - International PhaseUA - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationUA - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeUA - Annex D - International Searching AuthorityUA - Annex SISA -
International Searching Authority (Supplementary Search)UA - Annex E -
International Preliminary Examining AuthorityUA - Annex L - Deposits of
Microorganisms and Other Biological MaterialUA - National PhaseUA - Summary of
requirements for entry into the national phaseUA - The procedure in the
national PhaseUA - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide UA - Ukraine  
State Organization “Ukrainian National Office for Intellectual Property and
Innovations” (UANIPIO)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **1 March 2024**

(published on 1 February 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
RO: RO fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 30 Nov 2023, 1 Jan 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for UA - State Organization “Ukrainian National Office for Intellectual
Property and Innovations” \(UANIPIO\)”)).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: State Organization “Ukrainian National Office for Intellectual
Property and Innovations” (UANIPIO)

UPL: Law of Ukraine on the Legal Protection of Inventions and Utility Models,
1993, as last amended on 21 July 2020

UPR: Regulations on Drafting and Filing of an Application for a Patent and an
Application for a Utility Model, 2001, as last amended on 14 June 2011

UPP: Regulations on Processing of an Application for a Patent and an
Application for a Utility Model, 2002, as last amended on 14 June 2011

UFR: Procedure of Payment of Fees for Activities Related to the Protection of
Intellectual Property Rights, 2004, as last amended on 12 June 2019

List of currencies used in this document:

CHF (Swiss franc), EUR (Euro), UAH (Ukrainian hryvnia), USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=UA).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Article 64(5)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Ukraine

Two-letter code:

[UA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=UA&doc-lang=EN)

Ukraine - National Intellectual Property Authority, State Enterprise
“Ukrainian Intellectual Property Institute (Ukrpatent)”

Name of Office:

State Organization “Ukrainian National Office for Intellectual Property and
Innovations” (UANIPIO)

Location:

1, Dmytra Hodzenka Street  
Kyiv  
01601  
Ukraine

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(380-44) 494 05 05

E-mail:

office@nipo.gov.ua

Website:

<https://nipo.gov.ua/en>

Facsimile:

(380-44) 494 05 06

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes, within 14 days from the date of the transmission, if the transmitted
document is an international application or a replacement sheet containing
corrections or amendments of an international application

No, only upon invitation in the case of other documents

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

provided that the delivery service is DHL or Federal Express

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[UA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=UA&doc-lang=EN)

Ukraine - National Intellectual Property Authority, State Enterprise
“Ukrainian Intellectual Property Institute (Ukrpatent)”

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[UA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=UA&doc-lang=EN)

Ukraine - National Intellectual Property Authority, State Enterprise
“Ukrainian Intellectual Property Institute (Ukrpatent)”

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Patents

Utility models

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

The applicant may, from the date of publication of the international
application by the State Organization “Ukrainian National Office for
Intellectual Property and Innovations” (UANIPIO), claim payment of an
indemnity from a person who was actually aware or notified in written form in
Ukrainian, with indication of the number of the application, of the fact that
information on the application for invention, which is used by that person
without being entitled to do so, had been published. Such indemnity shall be
effective only upon grant of the patent (Article 21, Parts 2 and 4 of UPL)

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If the data concerning the inventor are missing at the
expiry of the time limit under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite
the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit of two months
from the date of receipt of the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Ukraine

Language in which international applications may be filed:

If the language in which the international application is filed is not
accepted by the International Searching Authority (refer to Annex D), the
applicant will have to furnish a translation (PCT Rule 12.3).

English,

Russian

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

English

Language in which the request may be filed:

English,

Russian

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

3

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
For the relevant notification by the Office, refer to the Official Notices
(PCT Gazette) dated 10 August 2023, page 156.

No

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies the “unintentional” criterion to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[UA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=UA&doc-lang=EN)

Ukraine - National Intellectual Property Authority, State Enterprise
“Ukrainian Intellectual Property Institute (Ukrpatent)”

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

1,

[UA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=UA&doc-lang=EN)

Ukraine - National Intellectual Property Authority, State Enterprise
“Ukrainian Intellectual Property Institute (Ukrpatent)”

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

This fee is reduced by 90% where all applicants are also inventors and by 80%
where all applicants are also non-profit institutions and/or organizations.
When the fee is payable with relation to an application made by both types of
applicant, and all applicants are either also inventors, or non-profit
institutions and/or organizations, the fee is reduced by 80%.

2,600 UAH or equivalent in EUR or USD

International filing fee:

Equivalent in EUR or UAH of 1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

Equivalent in EUR or UAH of 18 USD

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(UA)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

800 UAH

— plus for each sheet in excess of 30

This fee is reduced by 90% where all applicants are also inventors and by 80%
where all applicants are also non-profit institutions and/or organizations.
When the fee is payable with relation to an application made by both types of
applicant, and all applicants are either also inventors, or non-profit
institutions and/or organizations, the fee is reduced by 80%

Equivalent in EUR or USD of 10 UAH

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

This fee is reduced by 90% where all applicants are also inventors and by 80%
where all applicants are also non-profit institutions and/or organizations.
When the fee is payable with relation to an application made by both types of
applicant, and all applicants are either also inventors, or non-profit
institutions and/or organizations, the fee is reduced by 80%

200 UAH or equivalent in EUR or USD

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Ukraine  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any person registered to practice before the Office as patent attorney

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Not applicable

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Not applicable

##  Annex D - International Searching Authority

International Searching Authority competent for the following Receiving
Offices:

[UA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=UA&doc-lang=EN)

Ukraine - National Intellectual Property Authority, State Enterprise
“Ukrainian Intellectual Property Institute (Ukrpatent)”

Search fee (PCT Rule 16):

— for searches carried out in Russian or Ukrainian

96 CHF

100 EUR

105 USD

— for searches carried out in English, French or German

289 CHF

300 EUR

316 USD

This fee is payable to the receiving Office in the currency or one of the
currencies accepted by it.

Additional search fee (PCT Rule 40.2):

— for searches carried out in Russian or Ukrainian

100 EUR

— for searches carried out in English, French or German

300 EUR

This fee is payable to the International Searching Authority and only in
particular circumstances.

Fee for copies of documents cited in the international search report (PCT Rule
44.3):

per page 0.40 EUR

How to obtain copies:

Copies of documents cited in the international search report are available to
both applicants and designated (elected) Offices upon request only

Requests for copies of documents should be sent to the Office’s mailing
address or by facsimile to the following number:  
(380-44) 494 05 06

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.1 _ter_):

per page 0.90 EUR

Protest fee (PCT Rule 40.2(e)):

20 EUR

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rule 13 _ter_.1(c)):

None

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the search fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded

Where the international application is withdrawn or is considered withdrawn,
under PCT Article 14(1), (3) or (4), before the start of the international
search:  
refund of 100%

Where the Authority benefits from an earlier search, carried out in respect of
an earlier application by the Authority itself or by another International
Searching Authority, depending upon the extent to which the Authority benefits
from that earlier search:  
refund of 25% to 75%

Languages accepted for international search:

English,

French,

German,

Russian,

Ukrainian

Does the Authority accept informal comments on earlier search results where an
international application claims priority from an earlier application already
searched by this Authority?

No

Types of physical media accepted for the furnishing of nucleotide and/or amino
acid sequence listings:

CD-ROM, CD-R, DVD, DVD-R

Subject matter that will not be searched:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 39.1 with the
exception of any subject matter searched under the patent grant procedure in
accordance with the provisions of the law of Ukraine on the Protection of
Rights to Inventions and Utility models

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Not applicable

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Not applicable

##  Annex SISA - International Searching Authority (Supplementary Search)

Fees payable to the International Bureau:

For further details on the payment of fees to the International Bureau, refer
to the WIPO website at:  
<http://www.wipo.int/pct/en/fees/special.html>

Supplementary search fee (PCT Rule 45 _bis_.3):

This fee is fixed by the Authority in EUR and will be revised from time to
time to reflect currency fluctuations between EUR and CHF

— for a search of the documents in the search collection of the Authority,
including the PCT minimum documentation

87 CHF

— for a search of only the European and North American documentation

87 CHF

— for a search of only the Russian language documentation of the former USSR
and the Ukrainian language documentation

67 CHF

— for a search where a declaration referred to in Article 17(2)(a) has been
made because of subject matter referred to in Rule 39.1(iv)

58 CHF

Supplementary search handling fee (PCT Rule 45 _bis_.2):

200 CHF

Late payment fee (PCT Rule 45 _bis_.4(c)):

100 CHF

Fees payable to the Authority:

Fee for copies of documents cited in the supplementary international search
report (PCT Rule 45 _bis_.7(c)):

per page 0.40 EUR

How to obtain copies:

Copies of documents cited in the supplementary international search report are
available to both applicants and designated (elected) Offices upon request
only

Requests for copies of documents should be sent to the Office’s mailing
address or by facsimile to the following number:  
(380-44) 494 05 06

Review fee (PCT Rule 45 _bis_.6(c)):

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.1 _ter_):

per page 0.90 EUR

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rules 13 _ter_.1(c) and 45 _bis_.5(c)):

None

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the supplementary search fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded

The International Bureau shall refund this fee where the supplementary search
request has not yet been transmitted to the Authority and the international
application is withdrawn or considered withdrawn, or the supplementary search
request is withdrawn or considered not to have been submitted (refer to PCT
Rule 45 _bis_.3(d)):  
refund of 100%

The Authority shall refund this fee where work has not yet started and the
supplementary search request is considered not to have been submitted (refer
to PCT Rule 45 _bis_.3(e)):  
refund of 100%

Languages accepted for supplementary international search:

English,

French,

German,

Russian,

Ukrainian

Subject matter that will not be searched:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 39.1 with the
exception of any subject matter searched under the patent grant procedure in
accordance with the provisions of the law of Ukraine on the Protection of
Rights to Inventions and Utility models

Scope of documentation included in the supplementary international search:

Three scopes of documentation are offered, at the choice of the applicant
(refer to “Fees payable to the International Bureau”)

Limitations on supplementary international search:

The Authority shall notify the International Bureau if the demand for
supplementary international search exceeds available resources

Types of physical media accepted for the furnishing of nucleotide and/or amino
acid sequence listings:

CD-ROM, CD-R, DVD, DVD-R

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Not applicable

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Not applicable

##  Annex E - International Preliminary Examining Authority

International Preliminary Examining Authority competent for the following
Receiving Offices:

[UA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=UA&doc-lang=EN)

Ukraine - National Intellectual Property Authority, State Enterprise
“Ukrainian Intellectual Property Institute (Ukrpatent)”

Preliminary examination fee (PCT Rule 58):

— if the international search report has been prepared by the Authority:

— where examination is carried out in Russian or Ukrainian

50 EUR

— where examination is carried out in English, French or German

160 EUR

— if the international search report has been prepared by another
International Searching Authority:

— where examination is carried out in Russian or Ukrainian

70 EUR

— where examination is carried out in English, French or German

180 EUR

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority

Additional preliminary examination fee (PCT Rule 68.3):

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority and
only in particular circumstances.

— where examination is carried out in Russian or Ukrainian

60 EUR

— where examination is carried out in English, French or German

180 EUR

Handling fee (PCT Rule 57.1):

208 EUR

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority. It
is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee for copies of documents cited in the international preliminary examination
report (PCT Rule 71.2):

per page 0.40 EUR

How to obtain copies:

Copies of documents cited in the international preliminary examination report
are available to both applicants and elected Offices upon request only

Requests for copies of documents should be sent to the Office’s mailing
address or by facsimile to the following number:  
(380-44) 494 05 06

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.2):

per page 0.90 EUR

Protest fee (PCT Rule 68.3(e)):

20 EUR

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rule 13 _ter_.2):

None

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the preliminary examination fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded

In the cases provided for under PCT Rule 58.3:  
refund of 100%

If the international application or the demand is withdrawn before the start
of the international preliminary examination:  
refund of 75%

Languages accepted for international preliminary examination:

English,

French,

German,

Russian,

Ukrainian

Subject matter that will not be examined:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 67.1, with the
exception of any subject matter examined under the patent grant procedure in
accordance with the provisions of the law of Ukraine on the Protection of
Rights to Inventions and Utility models

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Not applicable

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

No

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Not applicable

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

None

— any additional indications:

None

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, relevant information on the
characteristics of the microorganism

Additional information

Deposits may also be made for the purposes of patent procedure before the
State Organization “Ukrainian National Office for Intellectual Property and
Innovations” (UANIPIO), with any depositary institution

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(3): 31 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1). The applicant may still furnish the translation and pay the fee
within two months after the expiration of the applicable time limit, provided
that a written request for extension of the applicable time limit has been
made and the fee for filing such request has been paid within the time limit
applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)

Ukrainian

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1). The applicant may still furnish the translation and pay the fee
within two months after the expiration of the applicable time limit, provided
that a written request for extension of the applicable time limit has been
made and the fee for filing such request has been paid within the time limit
applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, as amended only,
together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any text matter of
drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, only as amended by the
annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

Patents

Filing fee:

online 1,280 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

on paper 1,600 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1). The applicant may still furnish the translation and pay the fee
within two months after the expiration of the applicable time limit, provided
that a written request for extension of the applicable time limit has been
made and the fee for filing such request has been paid within the time limit
applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)

Additional fee for each 50 sheets in excess of 150:

online 640 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

on paper 800 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

Additional fee for each claim, dependent or independent, in excess of three:

160 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

Examination fee:

6,000 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

A written request for examination must be made and the examination fee must be
paid within three years from the international filing date

Additional fee for each independent claim in excess of one:

6,000 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

Utility models

Filing fee:

online 1,920 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

on paper 2,400 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1). The applicant may still furnish the translation and pay the fee
within two months after the expiration of the applicable time limit, provided
that a written request for extension of the applicable time limit has been
made and the fee for filing such request has been paid within the time limit
applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)

Additional fee for each 50 sheets in excess of 150:

online 960 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

on paper 1,200 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

Additional fee for each claim, dependent or independent, in excess of three

240 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

For patents:  
All fees are reduced by 90% where all applicants are also inventors and by 80%
where all applicants are also non-profit institutions and/or organizations.
When the fees are payable with relation to an application made by both types
of applicant, and all applicants are either also inventors, or non-profit
institutions and/or organizations, the fees are reduced by 80%

For utility models:  
All fees are reduced by 80% where all applicants are also inventors and by 60%
where all applicants are also non-profit institutions and/or organizations.
When the fees are payable with relation to an application made by both types
of applicant, and all applicants are either also inventors, or non-profit
institutions and/or organizations, the fees are reduced by 60%.

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit of two months from the date of receipt of the
invitation

Instrument of assignment of the priority application where the applicants are
not identical 2

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in Ukraine

Who can act as agent?

Any person registered to practice before the Office as a patent attorney

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies the “unintentional” criterion to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

UA.01 FORM FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

The Office has available a special form for entering the national phase (refer
to Annex UA.II). This form should preferably (but need not) be used.

UA.02 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

PCT Art. 46  
Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

UA.03 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

UPL Art. 36  
The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex UA.I.

UA.04 POWER OF ATTORNEY

UPR Rule 16.4,  UPP Rule 1.3  
An agent must be appointed by filing a power of attorney. A model is given in
Annex UA.III.

UA.05 INSTRUMENT OF ASSIGNMENT

Where the priority of an earlier application is claimed and the applicant(s)
in that application is (are) not identical with the applicant(s) of the
international application, an assignment of the priority right must be
furnished. A model is given in Annex UA.IV.

UA.06 REQUEST FOR EXAMINATION

UPL Art. 16.17,  UPP Rule 6.2.2  
The Office examines national patent applications as to substance. The
applicant must request examination within three years from the international
filing date. The examination fee is indicated in Annex UA.I.

UA.07 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  UPL Art. 16.5,  UPP Rule 1.5  
Subject to payment of the prescribed fee (refer to Annex UA.I), after the
entry into the national phase of an international application (refer to
Summary) and before the date of registration of the invention or utility model
in the corresponding State Register, the applicant may make corrections or
amendments to his application on his own initiative, provided the scope of the
subject matter of the application is not broadened thereby. The fee for
amendment of the application is indicated in Annex UA.I.

UA.08 RENEWAL FEE

UPL Art. 36,  UPL Art. 32  
After a patent has been granted, renewal fees must be paid for maintaining the
patent in force. Renewal fees are payable for the first and each subsequent
year following the international filing date. The first renewal fee should be
paid within four months from the date of publication of the granted patent.
The fee for each subsequent year must be paid within the last four months of
the current year during which the patent is valid. Renewal fees for patents
are indicated in Annex UA.I.

UA.09 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2),  PCT Rule 82 _bis_  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.
Reinstatement may be requested where the applicant was unable to observe a
time limit during the international phase or before the Office. The request
for reinstatement must be presented in writing, state the grounds on which it
is based and set out the facts on which it relies. Where the Office considers
the reinstatement justified, it will extend the appropriate time limit, upon
payment of the reinstatement fee indicated in Annex UA.I.

UA.10 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. If, upon review under PCT Article 25, the Office denies an
error or omission on the part of the receiving Office or the International
Bureau, an appeal against this decision may be lodged with the Appeals
Council.

UA.11 UTILITY MODEL

PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1,  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1(a),  PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1(b),  PCT
Rule 76.5  
If the applicant wishes to obtain a utility model instead of a patent in
Ukraine on the basis of an international application, the applicant, when
performing the acts referred to in Article 22 or 39, shall so indicate to the
Office.

UA.12

UPL Art. 36,  UPL Art. 32  
The manner of payment and the time limits for payment of renewal fees for
utility models are the same as those for patents (refer to paragraph UA.08).
Renewal fees for utility models are indicated in Annex UA.I.

UA.13 CONVERSION

UPL Art. 18  
Once the requirements for entry into the national phase have been complied
with by an international application for a patent, it may be converted into a
utility model application and _vice versa_. Conversion may be requested at any
time before the decision to grant the patent or the utility model.

##  Annexes

Annex UA.I - Fees

Patents

Filing fee 3

online 1,280 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

on paper 1,600 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

— additional fee for each 50 sheets in excess of 150

online 640 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

on paper 800 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

Additional fee for each claim, dependent or independent, in excess of three

160 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

Examination fee for one independent claim 3

6,000 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

— additional fee for each independent claim in excess of one

6,000 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

Publication fee 3

400 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

— additional fee for each page in excess of 15

20 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

Grant fee

100 USD 4

Renewal fees: 3 5

— for the 1st and 2nd years

per year 600 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

— for the 3rd year

800 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

— for the 4th year

1,000 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

— for the 5th year

1,200 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

— for the 6th year

1,400 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

— for the 7th year

1,600 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

— for the 8th year

1,800 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

— for the 9th to the 14th year

per year 4,200 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

— for the 15th to the 20th year

per year 7,600 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

— for the 21st to the 25th year

per year 30,400 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

Fee for restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.2)

200 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

Utility models

Filing fee 6

online 1,920 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

on paper 2,400 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

— additional fee for each 50 sheets in excess of 150:

online 960 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

on paper 1,200 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

Additional fee for each claim, dependent or independent, in excess of three

240 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

Publication fee 6

600 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

— additional fee for each page in excess of 15

30 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

Grant fee

100 USD 4

Renewal fees: 5 6

— for the 1st and 2nd years

per year 900 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

— for the 3rd year

1,200 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

— for the 4th year

1,500 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

— for the 5th year

1,800 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

— for the 6th year

2,100 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

— for the 7th year

2,400 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

— for the 8th year

2,700 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

— for the 9th and 10th years

per year 6,300 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

Fee for requesting extension of applicable time limits 6

800 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

Reinstatement fee (payable within 12 months after expiration of the missed
time limit) 6

800 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

Reinstatement fee (PCT Rule 49.6) 6

200 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

Fee for correction and/or amendment of application 6

1,600 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

— additional fee for each claim in patent applications or utility model
applications, where the number of claims is increased

160 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

— additional fee for each independent claim in patent applications, where the
number of claims is increased

6,000 UAH  
or equivalent in EUR or USD

How may payment of fees be effected?

The payment of fees may be effected in Ukrainian hryvnias (UAH) or in
equivalent amounts in Euros (EUR) or in US dollars (USD), except for the grant
fee which should be effected in USD. Payment documents shall indicate the name
of the applicant, the amount and category of fee being paid and the
application number (national, if already known; international, if the national
number is not yet known)

Fees, except for the grant fee, shall be paid to:

Beneficiary State Enterprise “Ukrainian Intellectual Property Institute”

Beneficiary code  
31032378

Beneficiary bank  
JSB “State Export-Import Bank of Ukraine” (JSC Ukreximbank),  
127 Antonovycha str.  
Kyiv  
03150  
Ukraine

SWIFT Code  
EXBSUAUX

Beneficiary account (IBAN):

UAH  
UA913223130000026008020020371 (980)

EUR  
UA913223130000026008020020371 (978)

USD  
UA913223130000026008020020371 (840)

RUB  
UA913223130000026008020020371 (643)

BYN  
UA913223130000026008020020371 (933)

Natural and legal persons permanently residing outside Ukraine shall pay the
grant fee to:

Beneficiary  
Department of Finance of the Executive Board of the Kyiv City Council (Kyiv
City State Administration)  
36, Khreschatyk str.  
Kyiv  
01044  
Ukraine

Beneficiary code  
02317474

Beneficiary bank  
JSC “THE STATE EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF UKRAINE” Kyiv  
Ukraine

SWIFT Code  
EXBSUAUX

Beneficiary account (IBAN)

USD  
UA323223130000025420010092523 (840)

BYN  
UA323223130000025420010092523 (933)

Purpose of payment  
application No._____________; state fee

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex UA.II - National processing request
form](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_ua.pdf)

[Annex UA.III - Power of
attorney](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_ua.pdf)

[Annex UA.IV - Instrument of
assignment](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_IV_ua.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office.  
2 ^ a This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  
3 ^ a b c d These fees are reduced by 90% where all applicants are also
inventors and by 80% where all applicants are also non-profit institutions
and/or organizations. When the fees are payable with relation to an
application made by both types of applicant, and all applicants are either
also inventors, or non-profit institutions and/or organizations, the fees are
reduced by 80%.  
4 ^ a b Natural and legal persons residing in Belarus may also pay the
equivalent amount in Belarusian rouble (BYR)  
5 ^ a b These fees are reduced by 50% where a notice about preparedness for
authorizing the use of the patented invention or utility model by any person
is filed with the Office for official publication, and are increased by 50%
where they are paid within 12 months after expiration of the prescribed time
limit  
6 ^ a b c d e f g These fees are reduced by 80% where all applicants are also
inventors and by 60% where all applicants are also non-profit institutions
and/or organizations. When the fees are payable with relation to an
application made by both types of applicant, and all applicants are either
also inventors, or non-profit institutions and/or organizations, the fees are
reduced by 60%  

Change(s) as of 1 March 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

International filing fee:

Equivalent in EUR or UAH of 1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

Equivalent in EUR or UAH of 18 USD

  

Close

Current version applicable from 1 Mar 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

