####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
UG - Useful informationUG - International PhaseUG - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationUG - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeUG - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialUG - National PhaseUG - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseUG - The procedure in the national PhaseUG - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide UG - Uganda  
Uganda Registration Services Bureau (URSB)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **1 March 2024**

(published on 1 February 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
RO: RO fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 1 Jan 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for UG - Uganda Registration Services Bureau \(URSB\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Uganda Registration Services Bureau (URSB)

UPA: The Industrial Property Act, 2014

UPR: The Industrial Property Regulations, 2017

List of currencies used in this document:

UGX (Uganda Shilling), USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=UG).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Uganda

Two-letter code:

[UG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=UG&doc-lang=EN)

Uganda - Uganda Registration Services Bureau (URSB)

Name of Office:

Uganda Registration Services Bureau (URSB)

Location:

Plot 5 George Street  
Georgian House  
Kampala  
Uganda

Mailing address:

P.O. Box 6848  
Kampala  
Uganda

Telephone:

(256-41) 733 80 00  
(256-41) 733 81 00

E-mail:

ursb@ursb.go.ug

Website:

<http://www.ursb.go.ug>

Facsimile:

None

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by e-mail

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes, within one month from the date of the transmission, if the transmitted
document is the international application or a replacement sheet containing
corrections or amendments of the international application

No, only upon invitation in the case of other documents

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[AP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AP&doc-lang=EN)

African Regional Intellectual Property Organization - African Regional
Intellectual Property Organization (ARIPO)

,

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[UG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=UG&doc-lang=EN)

Uganda - Uganda Registration Services Bureau (URSB)

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

National protection: UG

ARIPO protection: AP

Types of protection available via the PCT:

National:

Patents

Utility certificates

ARIPO:

Patents

Utility models (a utility model may be sought instead of or in addition to an
ARIPO patent)

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

Section 30 of the Industrial Property Act, 2014

Provisional protection after international publication:

Where the designation is made for the purposes of a national patent:

Relief may be sought in respect of acts committed before the grant of the
patent but after the date on which the international publication was effected
in English. Where the international publication was effected in a language
other than English, relief may be sought provided that the applicant had
transmitted an English translation of the international application to the
infringer and only in respect of acts committed by the latter after he had
received the translation.

Where the designation is made for the purposes of an ARIPO patent:

None.

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

For national protection

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Must be in the request. If not already complied with within the time limit
applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant
to comply with the requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

For an ARIPO patent

Refer to [Annex B(AP)](http://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-
code=AP&doc-lang=en&doc-type=annex#annex_b)

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

Uganda

Language in which international applications may be filed:

English

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

Same as above

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

3

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notifications by the Office, refer to Official Notices (PCT
Gazette) dated 13 February 2020, pages 20 _et seq._ and 11 August 2022, page
220.

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C
of the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, please refer to the Office for the applicable criteria and/or any fee
payable for such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

1,

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

2

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

Please refer to the Office

International filing fee:

Equivalent in UGX of 1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

Equivalent in UGX of 18 USD

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

Equivalent in UGX of 235 USD

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

Equivalent in UGX of 352 USD

Search fee:

Equivalent amount in UGX of the search fee payable to the International
Searching Authority:  
Refer to  
Annex D(AT)  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(SG)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

Please refer to the Office

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

Please refer to the Office

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in Uganda  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any advocate of the High Court of Uganda

Waiver of power of attorney:

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Refer to the Office

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Refer to the Office

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

At the time of filing (furnishing of the date of deposit of the biological
material is not necessary)

— any additional indications:

None

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, relevant information on the
characteristics of the biological material

Additional information

Where a deposited micro-organism ceases to be available from the institution
with which it was deposited because the micro-organism is no longer viable, or
for any other reason the depository institution is unable to supply samples,
and if the micro-organism has not been transferred to another depository
institution from which it continues to be available, an interruption in
availability shall not be taken to have occurred if a new deposit of the
micro-organism originally deposited is made within three months from the date
on which the person who deposited it is notified of the interruption by the
depository institution and a copy of the receipt of the deposit issued by the
institution is forwarded to the registry within four months from the date of
the new deposit stating the number of the application or of the patent. A new
deposit shall be accompanied by a statement signed by the person making the
deposit indicating that the newly deposited micro-organism is the same as that
originally deposited.

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

English

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, as amended only,
together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any text matter of
drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, only as amended by the
annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Natural persons or legal entities not having their residence or principal
place of business in Uganda must effect payment in US dollar

Patents

National processing fee

60,000 UGX

150 USD

Publication fee

50,000 UGX

50 USD

Grant fee

90,000 UGX

100 USD

Annual fee for the 2nd year

This fee is due, where PCT Article 22 applies, within 30 months from the
priority date; where Article 39(1) applies, it is due within 31 months from
the priority date. Late payment of annual fees is permitted subject to the
payment of a surcharge

50,000 UGX

50 USD

Utility certificates

National processing fee

30,000 UGX

50 USD

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in Uganda

Translation of the application in triplicate

Who can act as agent?

Any advocate of the High Court of Uganda

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, please refer to the Office for the applicable criteria and/or any fee
payable for such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

UG.01 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003).

UG.02 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex UG.I.

UG.03 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28,  PCT Art. 41,  UPA Section 23,  UPR Reg. 15  
The applicant may amend or correct the claims, description and drawings of the
international application at any time before the grant of the patent, provided
that the scope of the subject matter of the application is not broadened
thereby. An application may not be amended more than twice.

UG.04 EXAMINATION

UPA Section 31,  UPR Reg. 24  
The Office will examine or provide for the examination of patent applications
as to substance. A request for examination must be filed within three years
from the international filing date. The request is subject to the payment of a
fee which is indicated in Annex UG.I. Failure to make a request within the
prescribed time limit will cause the application to lapse.

UG.05 REPRESENTATION

UPA Section 21  
Where the ordinary residence or principal place of business of the applicant
is outside Uganda, the applicant shall be represented by an advocate of the
High Court of Uganda.

UG.06 ANNUAL FEES

UPA Section 47(1),  UPA Section 47(2),  UPA Section 47(3),  UPA Section 47(4),
UPR Reg. 35,  UPR Reg. 36  
Annual fees must be paid for each year following the international filing
date. For the due date of annual fees for the second year, refer to the
Summary. Payment of the subsequent annual fees must be made before the
expiration of the month containing the anniversary of the international filing
date. Payment can still be made, together with a surcharge for late payment,
before the expiration of the sixth month after the month containing the
anniversary of the international filing date. Failure to pay annual fees
before the expiration of this grace period will result in the application
being considered withdrawn or the patent lapsing. The amounts of the annual
fees are indicated in Annex UG.I.

UG.07 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 24(2),  PCT Art. 48(2),  PCT Rule 82 _bis_ ,  UPA Section 47(6),  UPA
Section 47(7),  UPA Section 47(8),  UPR Reg. 37  
Reference is made to paragraphs 6.022 to 6.027 of the National Phase.
Applications which have been considered to have been withdrawn and patents
which have lapsed for failure to timely pay the prescribed annual fees may be
restored, subject to a request which must be submitted within six months from
the expiration of the grace period for payment of annual fees. The request for
restoration, which may be made by any interested person, must be accompanied
by evidence to support the request and the restoration fee indicated in Annex
UG.I. If the Registrar is satisfied that the failure to pay the annual fees
was unintentional and that all annual fees due have been paid, he will order
the restoration of the application or the patent.

UG.08

An application which has become abandoned for failure to comply with a time
limit during the international phase or for failure to prosecute before the
Office may be revived as a pending application if it is shown to the
satisfaction of the Registrar that the delay was unavoidable or unintentional.
Any petition to revive such an application must be filed in writing and
contain an explanation of the causes of the delay. Petitions for revival of
unintentionally abandoned applications should be accompanied by the fee for
revival. Additionally, at the Registrar’s discretion, the applicant may be
given an extension of any time limits. Such extensions may be granted although
the applicable time limits have already expired.

UG.09 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51,  UPR Reg. 31  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. If, upon review under PCT Article 25, the Office denies an
error or omission on the part of the receiving Office or the International
Bureau, an appeal against this decision may be lodged with the Office.

UG.10 APPEALS

UPA Section 33  
An applicant may appeal to the High Court against a decision by the Registrar
according a filing date to an application, rejecting an application or
treating an application as if it had not been filed.

UG.11 UTILITY CERTIFICATE

PCT Rule 49 _bis_.1(c),  PCT Rule 76.5  
If the applicant wishes to obtain a utility certificate instead of a patent in
Uganda on the basis of an international application, the applicant, when
performing the acts referred to in Article 22 or 39, shall so indicate to the
Office.

UG.12

Annual fees for utility certificates are payable for the first and each
subsequent year after grant (refer to Annex UG.I), the fee for the first year
being paid simultaneously with the grant fee. Utility certificates expire,
without any possibility of renewal, at the end of the tenth year after grant.

UG.13 CONVERSION

UPA Section 70  
Once the requirements for entry into the national phase have been complied
with the applicant may convert his application for a patent, upon payment of
the prescribed fee, into an application for a utility certificate and _vice
versa_. Conversion of patent applications may be requested at any time before
the decision to grant or refuse to grant the patent or the notification of
registration of the application; conversion of applications for utility
certificates may be requested at any time before the grant of the utility
certificate or of the notification of rejection of the application. An
application may not be so converted more than once.

##  Annexes

Annex UG.I - Fees

Natural persons or legal entities not having their residence or principal
place of business in Uganda must effect payment in US dollar

Patents

National processing fee

60,000 UGX

150 USD

Publication fee

50,000 UGX

50 USD

Request for examination

150,000 UGX

250 USD

Grant fee

90,000 UGX

100 USD

Request to amend or divide application

50,000 UGX

100 USD

Request for withdrawal of application

20,000 UGX

10 USD

Annual fees:

— for the 2nd year

50,000 UGX

50 USD

— for the 3rd year

70,000 UGX

70 USD

— for the 4th year

90,000 UGX

90 USD

— for the 5th year

110,000 UGX

110 USD

— for the 6th year

130,000 UGX

130 USD

— for the 7th year

150,000 UGX

150 USD

— for the 8th year

170,000 UGX

170 USD

— for the 9th year

190,000 UGX

190 USD

— for the 10th year

210,000 UGX

210 USD

— for the 11th year

230,000 UGX

230 USD

— for the 12th year

250,000 UGX

250 USD

— for the 13th year

270,000 UGX

270 USD

— for the 14th year

290,000 UGX

290 USD

— for the 15th year

310,000 UGX

310 USD

— for the 16th year

330,000 UGX

330 USD

— for the 17th year

350,000 UGX

350 USD

— for the 18th year

370,000 UGX

370 USD

— for the 19th year

390,000 UGX

390 USD

— for the 20th year

410,000 UGX

410 USD

Surcharge for the late payment of annual fees

20,000 UGX

Please refer to the Office for the amount in USD

Restoration fee

100,000 UGX

300 USD

Utility certificates

National processing fee

30,000 UGX

50 USD

Request to amend or divide application

15,000 UGX

50 USD

Annual fees:

— for the 1st and 2nd years after grant

per year 30,000 UGX

per year 50 USD

— for the 3rd year after grant

30,000 UGX

100 USD

— for the 4th and 5th years after grant

per year 60,000 UGX

per year 100 USD

— for the 6th year after grant

60,000 UGX

150 USD

— for the 7th, 8th, 9th and 10th years after grant

per year 100,000 UGX

per year 150 USD

Surcharge for the late payment of annual fees

20,000 UGX

Please refer to the Office for the amount in USD

Restoration fee

50,000 UGX

50 USD

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of fees must be effected in Ugandan shilling or US dollar. All
payments must indicate the application number (national, if already known;
international if the national number is not yet known), the name of the
applicant and the category of fee being paid. All fees must be paid to the
Office by bank draft, international money order (or cash, at the Office only)
made payable to the Uganda Registration Services Bureau (URSB).

Forms

Please refer to the Office.

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office or by the Austrian Patent Office.  
2 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office.  

Change(s) as of 1 March 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

International filing fee:

Equivalent in UGX of 1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

Equivalent in UGX of 18 USD

  

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

Equivalent in UGX of 235 USD

  

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

Equivalent in UGX of 352 USD

  

Close

Current version applicable from 1 Mar 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

