####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * ISA
  * IPEA
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
US - Useful informationUS - International PhaseUS - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationUS - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeUS - Annex D - International Searching AuthorityUS - Annex E -
International Preliminary Examining AuthorityUS - Annex L - Deposits of
Microorganisms and Other Biological MaterialUS - National PhaseUS - Summary of
requirements for entry into the national phaseUS - The procedure in the
national PhaseUS - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide US - United States of America  
United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **2 May 2024**

(published on 2 May 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
GENERAL INFO: Contact details  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 1 Jan 2024, 25 Jan 2024, 1 Mar 2024, 25 Apr 2024, 25
Apr 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for US - United States Patent and Trademark Office \(USPTO\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

35 USC: Title 35, United States Code, Patents

The number cited after the letters USC or CFR is the relevant section of the
Patent Statute or of the Regulations, respectively

37 CFR: Title 37, Code of Federal Regulations, Patents, Trademarks and
Copyrights

The number cited after the letters USC or CFR is the relevant section of the
Patent Statute or of the Regulations, respectively

AIA: Leahy-Smith America Invents Act

List of currencies used in this document:

CHF (Swiss franc), EUR (Euro), NZD (New Zealand dollar), USD (US dollar), ZAR
(South African rand)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=US).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Article 64(3)(a), Article 64(4)(a), Rule 20.1(d), Rule 23 _bis_.2(e), Rule
26.3 _ter_(b), Rule 26.3 _ter_(d), Rule 49.5(l) (re Rule 49.5(c-_bis_)), Rule
49.5(l) (re Rule 49.5(k)), Administrative Instructions under the PCT (AI)
Section 703(f) (re. Section 703(b)(ii) to (iv) and relevant Sections of Annex
F of AI:)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

United States of America

Two-letter code:

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

Name of Office:

United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

Location:

Customer Service Window  
Knox Building  
501 Dulany Street  
Alexandria  
VA 22314  
United States of America

(The Customer Service Window is located in room 1D80 of the Knox Building)

Mailing address:

Mail Stop PCT  
Commissioner for Patents  
P.O. Box 1450  
Alexandria  
Virginia 22313-1450  
United States of America

Telephone:

_PCT Help Desk_

(1-571) 272 43 00

 _Toll free technical support for electronic filing_

(1-866) 217 91 97

 _Local technical support for electronic filing_

(1-571) 272-41 00

E-mail:

PCTHelp@uspto.gov

As from 1 January 2022, for one year on a pilot basis, for submitting general
and non time sensitive questions regarding the PCT and the procedures
applicable to international applications filed under the PCT and U.S. national
phase applications submitted under 35 U.S.C. §371. This pilot has been
extended for an additional year as from 1 January 2023. It should be noted
that this e-mail address is not intended for case specific or time sensitive
inquiries, which should still be directed by telephone to the PCT Help Desk
((1-571) 272 43 00)

Website:

<http://www.uspto.gov/patents/basics/international-protection/patent-
cooperation-treaty?MURL=patentcooperationtreaty>

Facsimile:

For details of which documents may be sent by facsimile refer to “Does the
Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means (PCT Rule
92.4)?”

 _PCT Operations – only available for certain documents_

(1-571) 273 83 00

 _USPTO Central Fax – only available for certain documents_

(1-571) 273 83 00

 _PCT Help Desk_

(1-571) 273 04 19

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All documents except the following:  
— certified documents including priority documents  
— documents needed to receive an international filing date under PCT Article
11  
— authorizations charging the basic national fee to a deposit account  
— when necessary, a copy of the international application for entry into the
national phase  
— documents directly related to a secrecy order

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

No, only upon invitation

Does the Office send notifications via e-mail in respect of international
applications?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

No

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

Yes, the Office is prepared to allow applicants to make national applications
filed in electronic form available to the WIPO DAS

For further details on how to request this Office to make applications
available to the DAS refer to:  
<http://www.uspto.gov/patents/basics/international-protection/electronic-
priority-document-exchange-pdx>  
However, the applicant may not request the receiving Office of the United
States of America (RO/US) to obtain a priority document from a digital library
and transmit it to the International Bureau pursuant to PCT Rule 17.1(b-_bis_)

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

Applicants may file with the International Bureau only if the national
security provisions allow filing of patent applications abroad. Compliance
with such provisions is the applicant’s responsibility and will not be checked
by the International Bureau

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Title 35, United States Code, Patents, Sections 181 and 184-188. Also refer to
37 CFR 5.11-5.20

Yes, filing restrictions apply to:

Inventions made in the United States of America

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Patents

Payment methods accepted by the Office:

All payments must be made in US dollars

Any payment may be effected by:

— United States Postal Service money order (37 CFR 1.23)

— check (37 CFR 1.23)

— USPTO deposit account (37 CFR 1.25)

— credit card (37 CFR 1.23(b))

Money orders and checks must be payable in United States dollars to the
“Director of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.” Remittance from foreign
countries must be payable and immediately negotiable in the United States of
America for the full amount of the fee required. All payments must indicate
the complete application number, the name of applicant and the type of fee
being paid

Payment for all fees may be made using one of the following credit cards:
MasterCard, VISA, American Express and Discover. Payment using a debit card or
check card will not be accepted. Applicants making payments by credit card
should use form PTO-2038 (National Chapter Annex US.II). Blanket
authorizations of payments to credit cards will not be accepted. The fee
amount must be specified. Credit card authorization may be used only one time.
Subsequent charges will require a new authorization. **ADVISORY** : If filing
by EFS-Web/Patent Center, do **NOT** attach the PTO-2038 form as a PDF along
with your EFS-Web/Patent Center submission. Please be advised that this is not
recommended and by doing so**your credit card information may be displayed via
PAIR**. To protect your information, it is recommended paying fees online by
using the electronic payment method. The PTO-2038 should only be mailed or
faxed to the USPTO. The PTO-2038 may not be faxed to the USPTO when paying the
basic national fee.

For information concerning electronic transfer of funds to the USPTO, please
contact Jusu Jallah, Office of Finance at:  
(571) 272-7473 or (571) 272-6500  
fax (571) 273-7473  
Applicants choosing to pay by electronic transfer should ensure that the full
amount of the fee due is received by the USPTO. There is a danger of loss of
rights if bank charges are deducted

Additional information regarding acceptable methods for paying fees to the
USPTO can be found at:  
<https://www.uspto.gov/learning-and-resources/fees-and-payment/accepted-
payment-methods>

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

Sections 1.104(a)(3) and (a)(4) and 1.21(e) of the Code of Federal
Regulations, Title 37 (37 CFR)

The USPTO does not require that a formal report of an international-type
search be prepared in order to obtain a search fee refund in a later filed
international application

Provisional protection after international publication:

The patentee is entitled to obtain a reasonable royalty commencing on the date
of the publication under PCT Article 21(2)(a) of the international
application, or if the publication is in a language other than English, on the
date the USPTO receives a translation of the international application in the
English language. The right to obtain a reasonable royalty is not available
unless the invention as claimed in the patent is substantially identical to
the invention claimed in the published international application. For details,
refer to National Chapter(US), paragraph US.47 (also refer to 35 USC 154(d)).

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

WARNING

“Prior art effect” of subject matter disclosed in a US patent issued on the
basis of an international application:

The United States of America made a declaration under PCT Article 64(4).
However, this declaration only applies to applications that are not subject to
the First Inventor to File provisions of the America Invents Act, that is,
applications that contain or ever contained a claim having an effective filing
date prior to 16 March 2013

Additional information regarding the applicability of the First Inventor to
File provisions of the America Invents Act can be found at:  
<http://www.uspto.gov/patents/first-inventor-file-fitf-resources>

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished later. If the data concerning the
inventor is missing at the expiration of the time limit under PCT Article 22
or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement
within a time limit fixed in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

United States of America

Language in which international applications may be filed:

English

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

The Office does not permit the language-dependent free text of the sequence
listing part of the description to be filed in more than one language, under
PCT Rule 12.1(d).

Same as above

Language in which the request may be filed:

English

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

1

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes

Where the international application is filed in electronic form, the total
amount of the international filing fee is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to
the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this should be furnished in accordance with Annex C
of the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
Where the international application is filed on paper, a sequence listing part
of the description should be furnished in WIPO Standard ST.26 XML format on
physical medium.

The USPTO accepts the filing of international applications in electronic form
according to its national law and technical systems (refer to Section 703(d)
and 703(f)(ii) of the PCT Administrative Instructions). For more information,
refer to:  
<https://www.uspto.gov/patents/apply>  
Technical support for filing international applications electronically is
available from the Patent Electronic Business Center (EBC) at (1-866) 217 91
97. Note that the applicable national law and technical systems provide for
requirements which are different from, and not compatible with, the
requirements of Section 703(b)(ii) to (iv) of the PCT Administrative
Instructions (refer to PCT Gazette No. 18/2002, page 8974). Applicants may,
however, use ePCT or PCT-SAFE to generate a .zip file containing a validated
request form, and then submit the .zip file electronically via EFS-Web or
Patent Center. For further details, refer to:  
<https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2020/09/30/2020-18743/facilitating-
the-use-of-the-world-intellectual-property-organizations-epct-system-to-
prepare>

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of pre-conversion documents
and, if yes, in which format (Section 706 of the PCT Administrative
Instructions)?

No

Does the receiving Office accept incorporation by reference (PCT Rule 20.6)?

Yes

Does the receiving Office accept the submission of color drawings on an
informal basis and transmit them to the International Bureau?

RO/US accepts color drawings on an informal basis. However, due to technical
reasons, these color drawings are either not transmitted to the IB or, when
they have been transmitted, the IB has not been able to use them. A team from
the USPTO is currently working with the IB concerning the future of document
transmission.

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, the Office applies the “unintentional” criterion to such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

1,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[IL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IL&doc-lang=EN)

Israel - Israel Patent Office

2,

[JP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JP&doc-lang=EN)

Japan - Japan Patent Office (JPO)

3,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[PH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PH&doc-lang=EN)

Philippines - Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines

4,

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

5,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

5,

[IL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IL&doc-lang=EN)

Israel - Israel Patent Office

5,

[JP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JP&doc-lang=EN)

Japan - Japan Patent Office (JPO)

5,

[KR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KR&doc-lang=EN)

Republic of Korea - Korean Intellectual Property Office

,

[PH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PH&doc-lang=EN)

Philippines - Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines

5,

[SG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SG&doc-lang=EN)

Singapore - Intellectual Property Office of Singapore

5,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

The amounts of these fees change periodically. The receiving Office or the
current USPTO Fee Schedule should be consulted for the applicable amounts at:  
<http://www.uspto.gov/learning-and-resources/fees-and-payment/uspto-fee-
schedule>

Transmittal fee:

260 USD

Small entity 104 USD 6

Micro entity 52 USD 7

In addition, there is:

— a non-electronic filing fee applicable to international applications filed
other than by the Office electronic filing system (EFS):

400 USD

— or in the case of filings by small or micro entities:

200 USD

International filing fee:

1,562 USD

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

18 USD

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (EFS-Web/ Patent Center without ePCT or PCT-EASY.zip file):

117 USD

Electronic filing (EFS-Web/ Patent Center with ePCT or PCT-EASY.zip file):

235 USD

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(AU)  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(IL)  
Annex D(JP)  
Annex D(KR)  
Annex D(SG)  
Annex D(US)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

None

Fee for requesting restoration of the right of priority (PCT Rule 26
_bis_.3(d)):

2,100 USD

Small entity 840 USD 6

Micro entity 420 USD 7

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No

Who can act as agent?

Patent attorneys and patent agents registered to practice before the Office. A
list of registered patent attorneys and agents may be obtained on the Internet
at:  
<http://oedci.uspto.gov/OEDCI/>

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Where it is unclear whether a purported agent has the power to act on behalf
of the applicant, and for certain changes under PCT Rule 92 _bis_

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Where it is unclear whether a purported agent has the power to act on behalf
of the applicant, and for certain changes under PCT Rule 92 _bis_

##  Annex D - International Searching Authority

International Searching Authority competent for the following Receiving
Offices:

[BH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BH&doc-lang=EN)

Bahrain - National Patent Office (Bahrain)

,

[BR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BR&doc-lang=EN)

Brazil - National Institute of Industrial Property (Brazil)

,

[CL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CL&doc-lang=EN)

Chile - National Institute of Industrial Property (Chile)

,

[DO](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=DO&doc-lang=EN)

Dominican Republic - National Office of Industrial Property (Dominican
Republic)

,

[EG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EG&doc-lang=EN)

Egypt - Egyptian Patent Office

,

[GE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=GE&doc-lang=EN)

Georgia - National Intellectual Property Center of Georgia (SAKPATENTI)

,

[IL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IL&doc-lang=EN)

Israel - Israel Patent Office

,

[IN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IN&doc-lang=EN)

India - Indian Patent Office

,

[JO](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JO&doc-lang=EN)

Jordan - Industrial Property Protection Directorate, Ministry of Industry,
Trade and Supply (Jordan)

,

[KN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KN&doc-lang=EN)

Saint Kitts and Nevis - Intellectual Property Office (Saint Kitts and Nevis)

,

[MX](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MX&doc-lang=EN)

Mexico - Mexican Institute of Industrial Property

,

[NZ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=NZ&doc-lang=EN)

New Zealand - Intellectual Property Office of New Zealand (IPONZ)

,

[OM](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=OM&doc-lang=EN)

Oman - National Intellectual Property Office (Ministry of Commerce, Industry
and Investment Promotion) (Oman)

,

[PA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PA&doc-lang=EN)

Panama - Directorate General of the Industrial Property Registry (DIGERPI)
(Panama)

,

[PE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PE&doc-lang=EN)

Peru - National Institute for the Defense of Competition and Intellectual
Property Protection (Peru)

,

[PH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PH&doc-lang=EN)

Philippines - Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines

,

[QA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=QA&doc-lang=EN)

Qatar - Intellectual Property Department (Qatar)

,

[SA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SA&doc-lang=EN)

Saudi Arabia - Saudi Authority for Intellectual Property (SAIP)

,

[TH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TH&doc-lang=EN)

Thailand - Department of Intellectual Property (DIP) (Thailand)

,

[TT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TT&doc-lang=EN)

Trinidad and Tobago - Intellectual Property Office, Office of the Attorney
General and Ministry of Legal Affairs (Trinidad and Tobago)

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

,

[ZA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ZA&doc-lang=EN)

South Africa - Companies and Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC) (South
Africa)

Search fee (PCT Rule 16):

1,856 CHF

Small entity 742 CHF 6

Micro entity 371 CHF 7

2,070 EUR

Small entity 828 EUR 6

Micro entity 414 EUR 7

3,652 NZD

Small entity 1,461 NZD 6

Micro entity 730 NZD 7

2,180 USD

Small entity 872 USD 6

Micro entity 436 USD 7

41,680 ZAR

Small entity 16,670 ZAR 6

Micro entity 8,340 ZAR 7

This fee is payable to the receiving Office in the currency or one of the
currencies accepted by it

The amount of this fee changes periodically. The International Searching
Authority or the current USPTO Fee Schedule should be consulted for the
applicable amount at:  
<http://www.uspto.gov/learning-and-resources/fees-and-payment/uspto-fee-
schedule>

Additional search fee (PCT Rule 40.2):

2,180 USD

Small entity 872 USD 6

Micro entity 436 USD 7

The amount of this fee changes periodically. The International Searching
Authority or the current USPTO Fee Schedule should be consulted for the
applicable amount at:  
<http://www.uspto.gov/learning-and-resources/fees-and-payment/uspto-fee-
schedule>

This fee is payable to the International Searching Authority and only in
particular circumstances

Fee for copies of documents cited in the international search report (PCT Rule
44.3):

— US patent document

per copy 3 USD

From 3 July 2007, the USPTO no longer mails paper copies of cited US patents
and US patent application publications cited in search reports, written
opinions or international preliminary examination reports in international
applications  
From 29 October 2013, the USPTO also no longer mails copies of published
international applications cited in international applications. However,
electronic copies may be viewed at the USPTO’s Internet web site:  
<http://www.uspto.gov/patents/search>  
The copies can also be printed for free. Copies can also be purchased online:  
ebiz1.uspto.gov/oems25p/index.html  
or obtained from the USPTO Office of Public Records ((1-800) 972 63 82 or
(571) 272 31 50) at the fee indicated above

— Non-US patent documents

None

The applicant receives, together with the international search report, a copy
of each cited document that is not a US patent document or a published
international application

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.1 _ter_):

— US patent document

per copy 3 USD

— Non-US patent document

per copy 25 USD

Refer to 37 CFR 1.19 for other document supply fees

Protest fee (PCT Rule 40.2(e)):

None

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rule 13 _ter_.1(c)):

320 USD

Small entity 128 USD 6

Micro entity 64 USD 7

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the search fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded

Where the international application is withdrawn or is considered withdrawn,
under PCT Article 14(1), (3) or (4), before the start of the international
search:  
refund of 100%

Languages accepted for international search:

English

Does the Authority accept informal comments on earlier search results where an
international application claims priority from an earlier application already
searched by this Authority?

No

Types of physical media accepted for the furnishing of nucleotide and/or amino
acid sequence listings :

Read-only optical disc: CD–ROM, CD–R, DVD–R, DVD+R

Subject matter that will not be searched:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 39.1 with the
exception of any subject matter searched under the patent grant procedure in
accordance with the provisions of United States patent law

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Where it is unclear whether a purported agent has the power to act on behalf
of the applicant, and for certain changes under PCT Rule 92 _bis_

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Where it is unclear whether a purported agent has the power to act on behalf
of the applicant, and for certain changes under PCT Rule 92 _bis_

##  Annex E - International Preliminary Examining Authority

The USPTO may act as International Preliminary Examining Authority only if the
international search is or has been performed by that Office, except that the
USPTO may act as International Preliminary Examining Authority for
international applications filed by at least one resident or national of the
United States of America with the USPTO or the International Bureau of WIPO as
receiving Office where the selected ISA is competent for residents or
nationals of the United States of America.

International Preliminary Examining Authority competent for the following
Receiving Offices:

[BH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BH&doc-lang=EN)

Bahrain - National Patent Office (Bahrain)

,

[BR](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=BR&doc-lang=EN)

Brazil - National Institute of Industrial Property (Brazil)

,

[CL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=CL&doc-lang=EN)

Chile - National Institute of Industrial Property (Chile)

,

[DO](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=DO&doc-lang=EN)

Dominican Republic - National Office of Industrial Property (Dominican
Republic)

,

[EG](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EG&doc-lang=EN)

Egypt - Egyptian Patent Office

,

[GE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=GE&doc-lang=EN)

Georgia - National Intellectual Property Center of Georgia (SAKPATENTI)

,

[IL](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IL&doc-lang=EN)

Israel - Israel Patent Office

,

[IN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IN&doc-lang=EN)

India - Indian Patent Office

,

[JO](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=JO&doc-lang=EN)

Jordan - Industrial Property Protection Directorate, Ministry of Industry,
Trade and Supply (Jordan)

,

[KN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=KN&doc-lang=EN)

Saint Kitts and Nevis - Intellectual Property Office (Saint Kitts and Nevis)

,

[MX](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=MX&doc-lang=EN)

Mexico - Mexican Institute of Industrial Property

,

[NZ](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=NZ&doc-lang=EN)

New Zealand - Intellectual Property Office of New Zealand (IPONZ)

,

[OM](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=OM&doc-lang=EN)

Oman - National Intellectual Property Office (Ministry of Commerce, Industry
and Investment Promotion) (Oman)

,

[PA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PA&doc-lang=EN)

Panama - Directorate General of the Industrial Property Registry (DIGERPI)
(Panama)

,

[PE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PE&doc-lang=EN)

Peru - National Institute for the Defense of Competition and Intellectual
Property Protection (Peru)

,

[PH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=PH&doc-lang=EN)

Philippines - Intellectual Property Office of the Philippines

,

[QA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=QA&doc-lang=EN)

Qatar - Intellectual Property Department (Qatar)

,

[SA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SA&doc-lang=EN)

Saudi Arabia - Saudi Authority for Intellectual Property (SAIP)

,

[TH](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TH&doc-lang=EN)

Thailand - Department of Intellectual Property (DIP) (Thailand)

,

[TT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=TT&doc-lang=EN)

Trinidad and Tobago - Intellectual Property Office, Office of the Attorney
General and Ministry of Legal Affairs (Trinidad and Tobago)

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

,

[ZA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ZA&doc-lang=EN)

South Africa - Companies and Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC) (South
Africa)

Preliminary examination fee (PCT Rule 58):

— When the international search was carried out by the USPTO:

640 USD

Small entity 256 USD 6

Micro entity 128 USD 7

— When the international search was not carried out by the USPTO:

800 USD

Small entity 320 USD 6

Micro entity 160 USD 7

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority

The amounts of these fees change periodically. The International Preliminary
Examining Authority or the current USPTO Fee Schedule should be consulted for
the applicable amounts at:  
<http://www.uspto.gov/learning-and-resources/fees-and-payment/uspto-fee-
schedule>

Additional preliminary examination fee (PCT Rule 68.3):

640 USD

Small entity 256 USD 6

Micro entity 128 USD 7

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority and
only in particular circumstances

Handling fee (PCT Rule 57.1):

235 USD

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority. It
is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee for copies of documents cited in the international preliminary examination
report (PCT Rule 71.2):

None

The applicant receives, together with the international preliminary
examination report, a copy of each additional document not cited in the
international search report which is not a US patent document or a published
international application

From 3 July 2007, the USPTO no longer mails paper copies of cited US patents
and US patent application publications cited in search reports, written
opinions or international preliminary examination reports in international
applications  
From 29 October 2013, the USPTO also no longer mails copies of published
international applications cited in international applications. However,
electronic copies may be viewed at the USPTO’s Internet web site:  
<http://www.uspto.gov/patents/search>  
The copies can also be printed for free. Copies can also be purchased online:  
ebiz1.uspto.gov/oems25p/index.html  
or obtained from the USPTO Office of Public Records ((1-800) 972 63 82 or
(571) 272 31 50) at the fee indicated above

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.2):

— US patent document

per copy 3 USD

— Non-US patent document

per copy 25 USD

Refer to 37 CFR 1.19 for other document supply fees

Protest fee (PCT Rule 68.3(e)):

None

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rule 13 _ter_.2):

320 USD

Small entity 128 USD 6

Micro entity 64 USD 7

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the preliminary examination fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded

In the cases provided for under PCT Rule 58.3 where the demand is considered
as if it had not been submitted (PCT Rules 54.4, 58 _bis_.1(b) or 60.1(c)):  
refund of 100%

If the international application or the demand is withdrawn before the start
of the international preliminary examination:  
refund of the amount paid less a processing fee equivalent to the transmittal
fee (refer to Annex C(US))

Languages accepted for international preliminary examination:

English

Subject matter that will not be examined:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 67.1 with the
exception of any subject matter examined under the patent grant procedure in
accordance with the provisions of United States patent law

Are there any restrictions with regard to the competence of the Authority
acting as an International Preliminary Examining Authority?

The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office.

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Where it is unclear whether a purported agent has the power to act on behalf
of the applicant, and for certain changes under PCT Rule 92 _bis_

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Where it is unclear whether a purported agent has the power to act on behalf
of the applicant, and for certain changes under PCT Rule 92 _bis_

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

None

— any additional indications:

At the time of filing

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent feasible, a description of the deposited biological material
sufficient to specifically identify it and to permit examination

Additional information

When the original deposit is made after the effective filing date of an
application for a patent, the applicant must promptly submit a statement from
a person in a position to corroborate the fact, stating that the biological
material which is deposited is a biological material specifically identified
in the application as filed (refer to 37 CFR 1.804(b)).

Deposits may also be made for the purposes of patent procedure before the
USPTO with any other depository institution recognized to be suitable by the
Office (refer to 37 CFR 1.803).

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(1): 30 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(a): 30 months from the priority date

Does the Office permit reinstatement of rights (PCT Rule 49.6)?

Yes

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or
39(1). The requirement may still be complied with in response to a notice sent
to the applicant, provided that a processing fee is paid for furnishing the
translation later

English

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or
39(1). The requirement may still be complied with in response to a notice sent
to the applicant, provided that a processing fee is paid for furnishing the
translation later

If the translation of the amendments is not furnished, the amendments are
considered to be cancelled (37 CFR 1.495(d) and (e))

Under PCT Article 22: Request, description, claims (if amended, both as
originally filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article
19), any text matter in the drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Request, description, claims, any text matter in the
drawings, abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally
filed and as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary report on
patentability (Chapter II))

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

Must be furnished within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or
39(1)

The applicant is only required to send a copy of the international application
if the national application is filed prior to the publication of the
international application. This may be the case where the applicant expressly
requests an earlier start of the national phase under PCT Article 23(2)

No copy is required if the international application was filed with the USPTO
as receiving Office. A copy of amendments of the claims filed under PCT
Article 19 with the International Bureau is required under the conditions
indicated in the previous paragraph

Does the Office accept color drawings under its national law?

Yes. Applicant must file a petition explaining why the color drawings are
necessary with a fee (currently 140 USD for an undiscounted entity) requesting
acceptance of the color drawings or color photographs. Color drawings and
photographs must be of sufficient quality such that all details in the
drawings are reproducible in black and white in the printed patent.

National fees:

The amounts of these fees change periodically. The United States Patent and
Trademark Office or the current USPTO Fee Schedule should be consulted for the
applicable amounts at:  
<https://www.uspto.gov/learning-and-resources/fees-and-payment/uspto-fee-
schedule>

Basic national fee

320 USD

Small entity (128 USD) 8

Micro entity (64 USD) 9

Must be paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)

Search fee:

— IPRP (Chapter II) prepared by the IPEA/US or the written opinion was
prepared by the ISA/US, all claims presented satisfied provisions of PCT
Article 33(1) to (4)

0 USD

Small entity (0 USD) 8

Micro entity (0 USD) 9

— International search fee paid to the USPTO as ISA

140 USD

Small entity (56 USD) 8

Micro entity (28 USD) 9

— Search report has been prepared by an ISA other than the US and is provided
or has been previously communicated by the IB to the USPTO

540 USD

Small entity (216 USD) 8

Micro entity (108 USD) 9

— All other situations

700 USD

Small entity (280 USD) 8

Micro entity (140 USD) 9

If not paid with the basic national fee, the USPTO will invite the applicant
to pay the fee within a time period fixed in the invitation

Examination fee:

— IPRP (Chapter II) prepared by the IPEA/US or the written opinion was
prepared by the ISA/US, all claims presented satisfied provisions of PCT
Article 33(1) to (4)

0 USD

Small entity (0 USD) 8

Micro entity (0 USD) 9

— All other situations

800 USD

Small entity (320 USD) 8

Micro entity (160 USD) 9

If not paid with the basic national fee, the USPTO will invite the applicant
to pay the fee within a time period fixed in the invitation

For every 50 sheets or fraction thereof of the specification and drawings that
exceeds 100 sheets (excluding any sequence listing or computer program listing
filed in an electronic medium)

420 USD

Small entity (168 USD) 8

Micro entity (84 USD) 9

If not paid with the basic national fee, the USPTO will invite the applicant
to pay the fee within a time period fixed in the invitation

Additional fee for each claim in independent form in excess of three

480 USD

Small entity (192 USD) 8

Micro entity (96 USD) 9

If not paid with the basic national fee, the USPTO will invite the applicant
to pay the fee within a time period fixed in the invitation

Additional fee for each claim, independent or dependent, in excess of 20

100 USD

Small entity (40 USD) 8

Micro entity (20 USD) 9

If not paid with the basic national fee, the USPTO will invite the applicant
to pay the fee within a time period fixed in the invitation

In addition, if the application contains one or more multiple dependent
claims, per application

860 USD

Small entity (344 USD) 8

Micro entity (172 USD) 9

If not paid with the basic national fee, the USPTO will invite the applicant
to pay the fee within a time period fixed in the invitation

Surcharge for paying any of the search fee, the examination fee, or filing the
oath or declaration after the date of commencement of the national stage

160 USD

Small entity (64 USD) 8

Micro entity (32 USD) 9

If not paid with the basic national fee, the USPTO will invite the applicant
to pay the fee within a time period fixed in the invitation

Processing fee for filing English-language translation after the expiration of
the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1)

140 USD

Small entity (56 USD) 8

Micro entity (28 USD) 9

If not paid with the basic national fee, the USPTO will invite the applicant
to pay the fee within a time period fixed in the invitation

Mega-Sequence Listing filing fee:

— submission of sequence listing of 300 MB to 800 MB

1,060 USD

Small entity (424 USD) 8

Micro entity (212 USD) 9

— submission of sequence listing of more than 800 MB

10,500 USD

Small entity (4,200 USD) 8

Micro entity (2,100 USD) 9

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

Reductions of the national fees are indicated under the national fees listed
above

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

Oath or declaration of the inventor 10

Information disclosure statement is recommended 11

Furnishing, where applicable, of a nucleotide and/or amino acid sequence
listing in electronic form

Who can act as agent?

Patent attorneys and patent agents registered to practice before the Office.  
A list of registered patent attorneys and agents may be obtained on the
Internet at:  
<https://oedci.uspto.gov/OEDCI/>

Does the Office accept the effect of restoration of the right of priority by
the receiving Office (PCT Rule 49 _ter_.1)?

Yes

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, the Office applies the “unintentional” criterion to such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

US.01 APPLICANT

35 USC 116,  35 USC 117,  35 USC 118,  37 CFR 1.42,  37 CFR 1.43,  37 CFR
1.45,  37 CFR 1.46,  37 CFR 1.421,  37 CFR 1.422,  37 CFR 1.423,  37 CFR 1.424  
For US national phase applications having an international filing date on or
after 16 September 2012, the applicant may be:

(a) the inventor(s);

(b) the legal representative of a deceased or legally incapacitated inventor;

(c) the assignee;

(d) the obligated assignee (i.e., a person to whom the inventor is under an
obligation to assign the invention); or

(e) a person who otherwise shows proprietary interest in the application.

For such applications, the person identified in the international stage as the
applicant will normally be considered the applicant for the US national phase
application, even if such applicant is not the inventor.

US.02

Where the applicant is a person who otherwise shows sufficient proprietary
interest in the matter, such applicant must submit a petition including: the
applicable fee, a showing that such person has sufficient proprietary interest
in the matter, and a statement that making the application for patent by a
person who otherwise shows sufficient proprietary interest in the matter on
behalf of and as agent for the inventor is appropriate to preserve the rights
of the parties.

US.03 INVENTORS

For US national phase applications with an international filing date prior to
16 September 2012, the inventor(s) is required to be the applicant(s) or, if
an inventor is dead, insane, or otherwise legally incapacitated, such
inventor’s legal representative. This is true even if the national phase
documents are filed after 16 September 2012.

US.04

37 CFR 1.41  
The inventorship of a US national phase application having an international
filing date on or after 16 September 2012 is the inventor or joint inventors
set forth in an application data sheet accompanying the initial national phase
submission (refer to paragraph US.06). If the initial national phase
submission for an application with an international filing date on or after 16
September 2012 is not accompanied by a proper application data sheet, OR if
the national phase application has an international filing date prior to 16
September 2012, the inventorship is the inventor or joint inventors set forth
in the international application, which includes any change effected under PCT
Rule 92 _bis_.

US.05 FORM FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

The USPTO has available a special transmittal form, Form PTO-1390 (refer to
Annex US.III), to accompany the fees and documents required for entering the
national phase. Use of the Form PTO-1390 is strongly encouraged because the
form clearly identifies the submission as a national phase entry filed under
35 USC 371, as required for proper processing (refer to paragraph US.11). In
addition, the Form PTO-1390 provides applicants with a checklist of items
generally required or potentially applicable to a national phase filing, as
well as a mechanism to make specific requests that may be appropriate in a
particular national phase application. For example, the Form PTO-1390 contains
checkboxes to expressly request that national examination procedures begin
immediately (refer to paragraph US.37), to instruct the USPTO not to enter
amendments made in the international phase, and to assert small entity status
(refer to paragraph US.20). Use of the Form PTO-1390 is not, however,
required.

US.06 APPLICATION DATA SHEET (ADS)

37 CFR 1.76,  37 CFR 1.495(c)  
Together with the Form PTO-1390 discussed above, applicants are also strongly
encouraged to submit an “application data sheet” (ADS). The ADS facilitates
electronic capture of the bibliographic data by the USPTO, thus leading to
more accurate data recording and quicker processing by eliminating the need to
have this data manually extracted from the application documents. An
application data sheet form for use where the international filing date is on
or after 16 September 2012 (Form PTO/AIA/14) and instructions for preparing
the form can be found at: <http://www.uspto.gov/patents/apply/forms>  
The Form PTO/AIA/14 is attached as Annex US.IV.

The Form PTO/AIA/14 is attached as Annex US.IV and the Form PTO/SB/14 is
attached as Annex US.V.

US.07

In an application with an international filing date on or after 16 September
2012, an application data sheet is required to postpone submission of the
required oath or declaration of the inventors (refer to paragraph US.26,
below).

US.08 CORRESPONDENCE

37 CFR 1.1,  37 CFR 1.5,  37 CFR 1.6(d),  37 CFR 1.6(g),  37 CFR 1.8(a)(2)  
It is preferable to file the required national phase items online using the
USPTO’s Patent Electronic System, which currently comprises EFS-Web and Patent
Center. The Patent Electronic System provides customers the ability to
electronically file a variety of patent application documents directly to the
USPTO, including those associated with US national phase entries under 35 USC
371. It is recommended that applicants continue to use the Form PTO-1390 when
electronically filing documents for entry into the US national phase under 35
USC 371 (refer to paragraph US.05). More information regarding the electronic
filing of US patent applications using the Patent Electronic System may be
obtained at <https://www.uspto.gov/patents/apply>. Full technical support is
available through the Patent Electronic Business Center (EBC) at (1-866) 217
91 97 from 6 a.m. to 12 Midnight Eastern Time, Monday – Friday (except federal
holidays). EBC may be emailed anytime at ebc@uspto.gov. In the event that the
Patent Electronic System is not available due to an outage, information
regarding alternative filing methods may be obtained at
<https://www.uspto.gov/patents/apply/filing-online/filing-documents-during-
outage>.

US.09

Patent Center, which will replace EFS-Web, has the added capability of
enabling the electronic filing of a sequence listing in Extensible Markup
Language (XML) format. This capability is important in view of the
implementation of WIPO Standard ST.26, incorporated into U.S. sequence rules
37 CFR 1.831 - 1.839, which require that a sequence listing filed in any
national phase application that has an international filing date on or after 1
July 2022 be in XML format in compliance with ST.26. For all applications
having an international filing date before 1 July 2022, a sequence listing may
be filed as an ASCII text file (.TXT) in ST.25 format, as per 37 CFR 1.821 -
1.825, but not as an ST.26 XML file. The USPTO’s Patent Electronic System has
a file size limit of 100 MB for sequence listings in text or XML format, which
must be uploaded separately from other types of files. Sequence listing files
that exceed 100 MB can be submitted on optical disc in accordance with 37 CFR
1.52(e) on the same day by using Priority Mail Express® from the USPS in
accordance with 37 CFR 1.10, or by hand delivery. Note that it is not
necessary to submit a copy of a sequence listing that is part of the
description of the international application upon entry into national phase at
the USPTO if the international application has been published by the
International Bureau (IB); the USPTO will obtain a copy of the published
international application, including the sequence listing, from the IB under
PCT Article 20. The inclusion of a sequence listing as part of the description
is indicated on the front page of the published international application. The
Patent Electronic System has a file size limit of 25 MB per PDF file, but up
to 60 documents of this size may be submitted in a single electronic package.

US.10

National phase documents may also be submitted by mail addressed to: Mail Stop
PCT, Commissioner for Patents, P.O. Box 1450, Alexandria, VA 22313-1450, USA.
If the applicant has received a “Notice of Acceptance of Application Under 35
USC 371 and 37 CFR 1.495”, the reference to “Mail Stop PCT” should be deleted.
If a US application number (e.g., 18/123,456) has been assigned, it should be
indicated on the documents. If a US application number has not yet been
assigned, the correspondence should state the name of the applicant, the
international filing date, the international application number and the title
of the invention. It is important to note that a copy of the international
application used to enter the national phase and/or payment of the required
basic national fee may NOT be submitted by facsimile.

US.11

35 USC 371,  35 USC 111,  37 CFR 1.495(g)  
A submission to enter the US national phase under the PCT is required by the
USPTO to contain a clear indication of this intention. The identification
requirement is usually complied with if the Form PTO-1390 for entering the
national phase is used (refer to paragraph US.05 above). The identification of
the international application, in the declaration or oath of the inventor
(refer to paragraph US.23), as a prior filed application for priority
purposes, or otherwise, is not considered to be a sufficient indication of an
intention to enter the national phase under the PCT. In accordance with 37 CFR
1.495(g), an initial application submission filed on or after 16 September
2012 that contains (e.g., in the application documents and/or the data entered
in the Patent Electronic System) conflicting indications as between a new US
national patent application under 35 USC 111(a) and a submission to enter the
national phase under 35 USC 371 will be treated by the USPTO as a submission
to enter the national phase under 35 USC 371. However, an initial application
submission filed prior to 16 September 2012 that contains conflicting
indications will be treated as a new US national patent application under 35
USC 111(a).

US.12 TRANSLATION (LATE FURNISHING OF)

35 USC 371(d),  37 CFR 1.492(i),  37 CFR 1.495(c),  37 CFR 1.495(d),  37 CFR
1.495(e)  
If the applicant pays the basic national fee and a copy of the international
application is received within the applicable time limit for national phase
entry, but a translation of the international application has not been
furnished by the applicant or is incomplete, a notice is sent to the applicant
which sets a time period for furnishing the translation. The applicant can
then timely furnish the translation provided that a processing fee is paid.
The amount of the processing fee is indicated in Annex US.I. The time period
set in the notice will be two months from the date of the notice or 32 months
from the priority date, whichever is later. The time period set in the notice
may be extended as provided for in 37 CFR 1.136(a) (refer to paragraph
US.43(i), below). The requirement to provide a translation of the
international application encompasses the sequence listing part of the
description. If an ST.25 text file that contains non-English free text is part
of the international application, the applicant should submit a translated
sequence listing text file in which the non-English text is replaced with the
English translation, and clearly identify the submission as a translation of
the sequence listing part of the description. If an ST.26 XML sequence listing
that is part of the international application contains one or more language-
dependent qualifiers that do not include an English value, applicant should
submit a translated sequence listing in which all language-dependent
qualifiers have English values, and clearly identify the submission as a
translation of the sequence listing part of the description. Where amendments
to the claims have been filed with the International Bureau under Article 19
and the applicant fails to furnish a translation or copy (refer to the Summary
of Requirements for Entry into the National Phase) of such amendments to the
claims within the time limit for national phase entry, the amendments to the
claims are considered to have been cancelled. A translation of any annexes,
e.g. Article 34 amendments, to the International Preliminary Examination
Report must be furnished prior to the expiration of the applicable time limit
under PCT Article 39(1). However, a translation of the annexes may be provided
during any time period set under 37 CFR 1.495(c) to furnish a translation of
the international application, the inventor’s oath or declaration, the search
fee, the examination fee, and/or the application size fee. If a translation of
the annexes is not timely filed, the amendments contained in the annexes will
be considered to be cancelled. However, such amendments may be reintroduced at
a later stage (refer to paragraph US.33).

US.13 TRANSLATION (CORRECTION)

Errors in the translation of the international application can be corrected
with reference to the text of the international application as filed (refer to
National Phase, paragraphs 6.002 and 6.003). If the translation furnished to
the USPTO was incomplete, refer to the preceding paragraph.

US.14 PAYMENT OF NATIONAL FEE

35 USC 371(d),  37 CFR 1.495(b),  37 CFR 1.6(d)(3),  37 CFR 1.8(a)(2)(i)(F)  
The basic national fee must be paid within the time limit for entry into the
national phase (refer to PCT Article 22(1) or 39(l)a)) which is 30 months
after the priority date. This time limit may not be extended. If the basic
national fee is not paid within the applicable time period, the application
becomes abandoned as to the United States. An authorization to charge the
basic national fee to a deposit account, credit card or any other means may
NOT be submitted by facsimile.

US.15 SEARCH FEE

37 CFR 1.492(b)(1),  37 CFR 1.492(b)(2),  37 CFR 1.492(b)(3),  37 CFR
1.492(b)(4)  
If the applicant pays the basic national fee and a copy of the international
application has been received within the time limit for national phase entry,
but the search fee has not been paid, a notice is sent to the applicant which
sets a time period for furnishing the search fee. The applicant can then
furnish the search fee provided a surcharge fee is paid. The amounts of the
search fee and the surcharge are provided in Annex US.I. The period set in the
notice is extendable as provided in 37 CFR 1.136(a) (refer to paragraph
US.43(i)).

US.16 EXAMINATION FEE

37 CFR 1.492(c)(1),  37 CFR 1.492(c)(2)  
If the applicant pays the basic national fee and a copy of the international
application has been received within the time limit for national phase entry,
but the examination fee has not been paid, a notice is sent to the applicant
which sets a time period for furnishing the examination fee. The applicant can
then furnish the examination fee provided a surcharge fee is paid. The amounts
of the examination fee and the surcharge are provided in Annex US.I. The
period set in the notice is extendable as provided in 37 CFR 1.136(a) (refer
to paragraph US.43(i)).

US.17 APPLICATION SIZE FEE

37 CFR 1.492(j)  
For any US national phase application or national application, where the
specification and drawings exceed 100 sheets of paper, for each additional 50
sheets, or fraction thereof, an application size fee will apply. For a US
national phase application, the application size fee is calculated on the
basis of the number of sheets of specification and drawings in the published
international application, without regard to the language of the publication.
The specification includes the description, claims, and abstract. Certain
other sheets typically present in the international publication are not taken
into account in determining the application size fee, i.e., Article 19
amendments/statement, the international search report, and any additional
bibliographic sheets (other than the cover sheet containing the abstract). The
amount of the fee is in Annex US.I.

US.18 ADDITIONAL CLAIMS FEE

37 CFR 1.75(c),  37 CFR 1.492(d),  37 CFR 1.492(e),  37 CFR 1.492(f),  37 CFR
1.492(g),  37 CFR 1.121(c)  
An additional claim fee is applicable for each independent claim in excess of
three, for each claim in excess of 20, and for an application that contains
multiple dependent claim(s). The number of additional claims for fee purposes
must be computed on the basis of the claims valid at the beginning of the
national phase (that is, where amendments have been filed, the claims as
amended under PCT Article 19 or PCT Rule 66.1, 66.3 and 66.4 or the claims as
amended in a preliminary amendment submitted in compliance with the applicable
US regulations by the applicant upon entering the national phase under PCT
Article 28 or 41). Where the applicant fails to pay the correct amount of the
additional claims fee, the USPTO will send a notification of fee deficiency
and invite payment of the fee at the amount applicable on the date of payment.
To avoid abandonment, the fee must be paid or the claims canceled by amendment
prior to the expiration of the time period set for reply to any notification
of fee deficiency.

US.19 FEE REDUCTION FOR “SMALL ENTITY” OR “MICRO ENTITY”

37 CFR 1.27,  37 CFR 1.28,  37 CFR 1.29,  37 CFR 1.33,  37 CFR 1.492  
Applicants having a “small entity” or “micro entity” status are entitled to a
reduction of 60% or 80%, respectively, in certain fees.

US.20

“Small entity” status can be established by a single written assertion of
entitlement to “small entity” status without use of a specialized form. “Small
entity” status may also be established by checking the box provided on the
application data sheet discussed in paragraph US.06 or the Form PTO-1390 for
entering the national phase discussed in paragraph US.05, or by payment of the
exact basic national fee for a small entity. For a US national phase
application with an international filing date on or after 16 September 2012,
parties who may assert “small entity” status include the applicant, a patent
practitioner of record or a practitioner acting in a representative capacity,
the inventor or a joint inventor (if the inventor is an applicant), or the
assignee. Assertion of small entity status requires a determination of
entitlement to that status. For a US national phase application with an
international filing date prior to 16 September 2012, parties who may assert
“small entity” status include a registered practitioner, one of the inventors,
or a partial assignee (an assignee assertion of small entity status must be
filed by a 37 CFR 1.33(b) party).

US.21

“Micro entity” status can be established under either the “gross income” or
“institution of higher education” basis. Under either basis, an application
must also satisfy the requirements for “small entity” status. Unlike “small
entity” status, “micro entity” status cannot be established by a simple
statement alleging entitlement to “micro entity” status, by checking the box
provided on the application data sheet or the Form PTO-1390 for entering the
national phase, or by payment of the exact basic national fee. Rather, a
certification of entitlement to “micro entity” status must be submitted. The
USPTO provides Forms PTO/SB/15A and PTO/SB/15B for use in certifying “micro
entity” status. These forms are available on the USPTO Web site at:
<http://www.uspto.gov/patents/apply/forms>;  
copies of the certification forms are also in Annex US.VI and US.VII. The
certification of “micro entity” status must be executed by a party authorized
under 37 CFR 1.33(b). It should be noted that a registered practitioner is
required to sign the certification for any applicant that is a corporation or
organization; an officer of an assignee corporate applicant, for example, is
not authorized to sign the certificate of “micro entity” status.

US.22 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

37 CFR 1.23  
The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and in this Chapter
is outlined in Annex US.I. A copy of a Credit Card Payment Form (Form
PTO-2038) and the instructions thereto is attached as Annex US.II. It should
be noted that an authorization to charge the basic national fee to a deposit
account, credit card or any other means may NOT be submitted by facsimile.

US.23 OATH OR DECLARATION OF THE INVENTOR

35 USC 115,  35 USC 371(c)(4),  35 USC 371(d),  37 CFR 1.497,  37 CFR
1.495(c),  37 CFR 1.63,  37 CFR 1.64  
As a result of changes implemented by the America Invents Act (AIA), the
requirements for the oath or declaration of the inventor depend on whether an
application was filed before or after 16 September 2012. A sample of an
appropriate declaration for use in applications with an international filing
date on or after 16 September 2012 is provided in Annex US.VII. In addition,
Box No. VIII(iv) of the PCT request form (PCT/RO/101) contains a “DECLARATION:
INVENTORSHIP (only for the purposes of the designation of the United States of
America).” The declaration contained in Box No. VIII(iv) of the PCT request
form (PCT/RO/101) was updated in the 16 September 2012 revision of the PCT
request form (PCT/RO/101) to comply with the revised US law. Accordingly, the
“DECLARATION: INVENTORSHIP (only for the purposes of the designation of the
United States of America)” contained in previous versions of the PCT request
form (PCT/RO/101) does not comply with current US law and will not be accepted
by the USPTO with respect to applications with an international filing date on
or after 16 September 2012.

US.24

For applications with an international filing date on or after 16 September
2012, a “substitute statement” may be submitted in lieu of an oath or
declaration of the inventors if the inventor is deceased, is under a legal
incapacity, has refused to execute the oath or declaration, or cannot be found
or reached after diligent effort (a sample “substitute statement” form is
provided in Annex US.X).

US.25

For applications with an international filing date before 16 September 2012,
if the applicant pays the basic national fee and a copy of the international
application is received within the time limit for entry into the national
phase, but an oath or declaration of the inventor is not furnished, a notice
shall be sent to the applicant which sets a time period for furnishing the
oath or declaration. The applicant can then furnish the oath or declaration
provided that a surcharge is paid. The amount of the surcharge is indicated in
Annex US.I. The time period set in the notice will be two months from the date
of the notice or 32 months from priority date, whichever is later. The time
period set in the notice is extendable as provided for in 37 CFR 1.136 (a)
(refer to paragraph US.43(i)).

US.26

For applications with an international filing date on or after 16 September
2012, the submission of an “application data sheet” (refer to paragraph US.06)
identifying each inventor and providing each inventor’s residence and mailing
address will permit the applicant to postpone submission of the oath or
declaration of the inventor (or substitute statement, if applicable) until the
application is otherwise in condition for allowance. In such cases, the USPTO
will issue a Notice Of Acceptance (Form PCT/DO/EO/903) and refer the
application for publication and examination; however, the Notice Of Acceptance
(Form PCT/DO/EO/903) will indicate that the oath or declaration requirement
has not yet been satisfied.

US.27 POWER OF ATTORNEY

37 CFR 1.31,  37 CFR 1.32  
No representation of the applicant by an attorney or agent is required where
the applicant is an individual or individuals; however, a juristic entity
(e.g., organizational assignee) must be represented by an attorney or agent.
Where an attorney or agent is to represent an applicant, a power of attorney
signed by the applicant/inventor to an attorney or agent registered to
practice before the USPTO is required. Sample power of attorney forms for use
in an application with an international filing date on or after 16 September
2012 (Forms PTO/AIA/80, 81 and 82) are in Annexes US.IX-XI. It is highly
advisable to be represented by an attorney or agent.

US.28 INFORMATION DISCLOSURE STATEMENT

37 CFR 1.56,  37 CFR 1.97,  37 CFR 1.98  
The applicant must (to be prudent) file with the USPTO, not later than three
months from the date of entry of the national phase, an information disclosure
statement. Such statement must disclose all information of which the
applicant, or any other person substantively involved with the preparation of
the application or its prosecution, is aware which is material to the
patentability of the invention. Such information is material to patentability
when it is not cumulative to information already of record in the application,
and (1) it establishes, by itself or in combination with other information, a
_prima facie_ case of unpatentability of a claim; or (2) it refutes, or is
inconsistent with, a position the applicant takes in (i) opposing an argument
of unpatentability relied upon by the Office, or (ii) asserting an argument of
patentability. A _prima facie_ case of unpatentability is established when the
information compels a conclusion that a claim is unpatentable by the
preponderance of evidence, burden of proof standard, giving each term in the
claim its broadest reasonable construction consistent with the description,
and before any consideration is given to evidence which may be submitted in an
attempt to establish a contrary conclusion of patentability.

US.29

The information disclosure statement must include:

(1) a listing (preferably on Forms PTO/SB/08a and 08b, refer to Annex US.XII)
of patents, applications, publications or other information. US patents and US
patent applications must be listed in a section separately from citations of
other documents. Each page of the listing must include:

(i) the application number of the application in which the information
disclosure statement is being submitted;

(ii) a column that provides a space, next to each document to be considered,
for the examiner’s initials;

(iii) a heading that clearly indicates that the list is an information
disclosure statement;

(2) a copy of each listed item except for US patents and US patent application
publications;

(3) for each item listed which is not in the English language, a concise
explanation of its relevance.

US.30

Applicants may also file an information disclosure statement via the Office’s
electronic filing system (EFS-Web/Patent Center) by:

(1) entering the references’ citation information in a fillable electronic
form equivalent to the revised Forms PTO/SB/08a and 08b; and

(2) transmitting the fillable electronic form data to the Office via EFS-
Web/Patent Center.

US.31

35 USC 371,  37 CFR 1.97,  37 CFR 1.98  
Note, however, that the examiner will consider the documents cited in the
international search report in a PCT national phase application when the Form
PCT/DO/EO/903 (which is sent to notify the applicant after he has entered the
national phase of the acceptance of the international application under 35 USC
371) indicates that both the international search report and the copies of the
prior art documents are present in the national phase file. In such a case,
the examiner will consider the documents from the international search report
and indicate by a statement in the first Office action that the information
has been considered. There is no requirement that the examiner list the
documents on a Notice of References Cited (Form PTO-892). In order to have
these prior art documents printed on any resulting patent, the applicant must
provide a separate listing (preferably on Forms PTO/SB/08a and 08b). If Form
PCT/DO/EO/903 does not indicate that both the international search report and
copies of the prior art documents are present in the national stage file, the
applicant must follow the procedures set forth in 37 CFR 1.97 and 1.98
(concerning the filing and content of information disclosure statements), as
outlined above, in order to ensure that the examiner considers the documents
cited in the international search report.

US.32

37 CFR 1.97(e)  
A translation into English of the pertinent portions in a non-English language
document must be transmitted if an existing translation is readily available
to the applicant. Any additional information material to the claimed invention
which becomes available after the transmittal of the statement should, within
three months of its availability, be submitted by a supplemental information
disclosure statement. Failure to disclose completely any pertinent information
may result in any resulting US patent based on the application being
unenforceable. A fee or an appropriate statement under 37 CFR 1.97(e) is
required if an information disclosure statement is submitted more than three
months after entry to the national stage and after a first Office action is
mailed, but before a final Office action or a notice of allowance is issued.
After a final Office action or a notice of allowance has been issued but
before payment of the issue fee, a fee and an appropriate statement under 37
CFR 1.97(e) will be required to have an information disclosure statement
considered.

US.33 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION; TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 28  
The applicant may make the following amendments, provided no new matter is
introduced in the disclosure of the invention:

35 USC 133,  37 CFR 1.111,  37 CFR 1.112,  37 CFR 1.113,  37 CFR 1.114,  37
CFR 1.115,  37 CFR 1.116,  37 CFR 1.117,  37 CFR 1.118,  37 CFR 1.119,  37 CFR
1.120,  37 CFR 1.121,  37 CFR 1.122,  37 CFR 1.123,  37 CFR 1.124,  37 CFR
1.125,  37 CFR 1.126,  37 CFR 1.127  
(i) before the final decision of the USPTO to grant or to reject the patent,
the applicant may file amendments to the description, claims and drawing(s) of
his own volition or when specifically required by the examiner;

37 CFR 1.116  
(ii) after the final decision, amendments may be made only by cancelling
claims or complying with any requirement of form which has been made by the
examiner, or by presenting rejected claims in better form for reconsideration
on appeal.

US.34

37 CFR 1.121,  37 CFR 1.125  
For the manner of making amendments and the required format, refer to the
applicable US regulations, in particular 37 CFR 1.121 and 1.125. One of the
requirements for effectively amending claims in a national phase application
is a complete listing of all claims ever presented, including the text of all
pending and withdrawn claims. The status of every claim in such listing must
be indicated after its claim number by one of the following identifiers in a
parenthetical expression: (Original), (Currently Amended), (Canceled),
(Withdrawn), (Previously Presented), (New), and (Not Entered). All “currently
amended” claims must include markings to indicate the changes made relative to
the immediate prior version of the claims: underlining to indicate additions,
strike-through or double brackets for deletions (refer to 37 CFR 1.121(c) for
further details regarding the format of claim amendments). Applicants should
note that, in an amendment to the claims filed in a national phase
application, the status identifier “original” must be used for claims that had
been presented on the international filing date and not modified or canceled.
The status identifier “previously presented” must be used in any amendment
submitted during the national phase for any claims added or modified under PCT
Articles 19 or 34 in the international phase that were subsequently entered in
the national phase. The status identifier “canceled” must be used in any
amendment submitted during the national phase for any claims canceled under an
Article 19 or 34 amendment in the international phase and subsequently entered
in the national phase.

Example 1: Original claims 1-10; Article 19/34 filed with claims 1-20 listed
on the replacement sheet wherein claims 1-10 were unchanged and claims 11-20
were added; the status of the claims prior to any further amendment under 37
CFR 1.121 would be as follows: claims 1-10 as “original” and claims 11-20 as
“previously presented.”

Example 2: Original claims 1-10; Article 19/34 filed with claims 1-9 listed on
the replacement sheet wherein claims 1-9 were unchanged and claim 10 was
cancelled; the status of the claims prior to any further amendment under 37
CFR 1.121 would be as follows: claims 1-9 as “original” and claim 10 as
“cancelled.”

Example 3: Original claims 1-10; Article 19/34 filed with claims 1-9 listed on
the replacement sheet wherein claim 1 was unchanged, claim 2 was cancelled and
claims 3-10 were renumbered as claims 2-9; the status of the claims prior to
any further amendment under 37 CFR 1.121 would be as follows: claim 1 as
“original, ”, claims 2-9 as “previously presented” and claim 10 as
“cancelled.”

Example 4: Original claims 1-10; Article 19/34 filed with claims 1-10 listed
on the replacement sheet wherein claims 1 and 3-10 were unchanged and claim 2
was cancelled; the status of the claims prior to any further amendment under
37 CFR 1.121 would be as follows: claims 1 and 3-10 as “original” and claim 2
as “cancelled.”

Proposed amendments that are not submitted in compliance with the applicable
regulations will not be entered. For example, the submission with the national
phase documents of a revised set of claims, absent a preliminary amendment to
the claims in compliance with 37 CFR 1.121(c), will not be effective to amend
the claims of record in the application.

US.35 FEE FOR GRANT

37 CFR 1.18  
A patent issue fee and any required publication fee must be paid within a
nonextendable period of three months after the mailing of a written notice of
allowance. The amount of the said fee is indicated in Annex US.I.

US.36 MAINTENANCE FEES

37 CFR 1.20  
After a patent has been issued, a fee must be paid for maintaining the patent
in force beyond four years after grant. The first such fee is due by three
years and six months after issue of the patent. Where the applicant fails to
pay within that time limit, he may receive an invitation to pay from the
USPTO. Lack of receipt of such an invitation will not be accepted as an excuse
for non-payment of the maintenance fee. Payment can then still be made
together with a surcharge within the six months following the due date. The
amount of the maintenance fees, of the surcharge, and their due dates are
indicated in Annex US.I.

US.37 EARLY START OF NATIONAL PHASE BEFORE THE USPTO

PCT Art. 23(2),  35 USC 371(f)  
If the applicant desires the examination by the USPTO of his application to
start earlier than the expiration of the time limit for entry into the
national phase, he must file in writing an express request therefor and submit
the basic national fee, a copy of the international application, a translation
of the international application (if required) and an oath or declaration of
the inventor. The express request may be accomplished, for example, by
checking the appropriate box on the Form PTO-1390 for entry into the national
phase referred to in paragraph US.05 and reproduced in Annex US.III.

US.38

The mechanism for deferring submission of the oath or declaration of the
inventor by filing an “application data sheet” (refer to paragraph US.26) is
not applicable where the applicant requests early examination by the USPTO.
Such early examination of the application requires submission of the oath or
declaration (or the substitute statement, if applicable).

US.39 CONTINUATION, CONTINUATION-IN-PART OR DIVISIONAL

35 USC 111,  35 USC 120,  35 USC 365(c),  35 USC 371(c),  37 CFR 1.76,  37 CFR
1.78,  37 CFR 1.495(h)  
The applicant may—instead of entering the national phase—file a continuation,
continuation-in-part or divisional of the international application
(hereinafter referred to as “the continuing application”), provided the
international application designates the US and is not (considered) withdrawn
or abandoned at the time of filing the continuing application. An
international application is considered abandoned after the expiration of the
time limit for entry into the national phase, which is 30 months after the
priority date, if a copy of the international application and the basic
national fee have not been received in the USPTO. When the basic national fee
has been paid and a copy of the international application has been
communicated by the International Bureau within the time limit for entry into
the national phase, but additional national phase requirements have not been
submitted (e.g., an English translation and/or additional required fees), a
notice will be sent to the applicant to furnish such additional required
materials. If the applicant does not properly respond to the notice within the
time period set by the USPTO, the international application will become
abandoned.

US.40

Basically, the normal procedure for filing continuing applications applies.
The applicant must submit an application data sheet (refer to paragraph US.06)
claiming the benefit of the international filing date of the international
application designating the US. The reference to the international application
in the application data sheet must identify the international application by
international application number and international filing date, and it must
indicate the relationship of the applications (i.e., continuation,
continuation-in-part, or divisional). This reference to the international
application must be submitted during the pendency of the continuing
application, and within the later of four months from the actual filing date
of the continuing application or sixteen months from the filing date of the
international application. This time limit is not extendable. The USPTO may
require the filing of a certified copy of the international application
together with a translation thereof into English where it was filed in another
language. The continuing application may be filed in a language other than
English, provided a translation into English is furnished together with a
surcharge (refer to Annex US.I) within the time period fixed by the USPTO in
an invitation. Where, at the time of filing the continuing application, the
basic filing fee has not been paid or the oath or declaration of the inventor
has not been furnished, the requirement may still be complied with against
payment of a surcharge within the time period fixed by the USPTO in an
invitation. Use of the Form PTO-1390 reproduced in Annex US.III is not
appropriate for the filing of a continuing application.

US.41 REVIEW UNDER ARTICLE 25 OF THE PCT

PCT Art. 25,  PCT Rule 51,  35 USC 367,  37 CFR 1.182  
The applicable procedure is outlined in paragraphs 6.018 to 6.021 of the
National Phase. If, upon review under PCT Article 25, the USPTO finds no error
or omission on the part of the receiving Office or the International Bureau, a
petition may be taken to the Commissioner of the USPTO, which must contain a
statement of the facts involved and the point or points to be reviewed and the
action requested. The fee for petition indicated in Annex US.I must be paid at
the same time. Any such petition not filed within two months from the action
complained of may be dismissed as untimely.

US.42 EXCUSE OF DELAYS IN MEETING TIME LIMITS

PCT Art. 48(2),  PCT Rule 82 _bis_ ,  37 CFR 1.137  
An application abandoned for failure to comply with a time limit during the
international phase or for failure to prosecute within a statutory time period
before the USPTO, may be revived as a pending application if it is shown to
the satisfaction of the USPTO that the delay was unintentional. Any petition
to revive an abandoned application must be filed in writing and be accompanied
by a petition fee, the amount of which is indicated in Annex US.I, by a proper
response to the failed action unless such response has been previously
submitted and by a statement indicating that the entire delay was
unintentional. The USPTO has provided Form PTO/SB/64PCT (refer to Annex
US.XVI) for use as a petition to revive an unintentionally abandoned
international application (use of the form is optional).

US.43

The US rules provide for two distinct procedures to extend the period for
action or response in particular situations (the procedure which is available
for use in a particular situation will depend upon the circumstances):

37 CFR 1.136  
(i) 37 CFR 1.136(a) permits an applicant, against payment of an extension fee
(refer to Annex US.I), to file a petition for extension of time up to five
months after the end of the time period set to take action except

(1) where excluded,

(2) in interference proceedings,

(3) where the applicant has been notified otherwise in an Office action or

(4) where no further time is available under a set statutory period.

The petition and fee can be filed prior to or with or after the response, but
the fee must be paid within the time extended. The filing of the petition and
fee will extend the time period to take action up to five months dependent on
the amount of the fee paid except in those circumstances noted above. The time
limit to furnish the basic national fee and a copy of the international
application under 37 CFR 1.495 may not be extended.

(ii) After entry into the national phase, 37 CFR 1.136(b) provides for
petitions for extensions of time of shortened statutory or non-statutory time
periods upon a showing of sufficient cause when the procedure of 37 CFR
1.136(a) is not available and if additional time is still available under a
shortened statutory period or if no statutory period applies.

Although the petition and fee procedure of 37 CFR 1.136(a) will normally be
available within five months after a set period for response has expired, an
extension request for cause under 37 CFR 1.136(b) must be filed during the set
period for response. The amount of the petition fee is indicated in Annex
US.I.

US.44 RECORDING OF ASSIGNMENT DOCUMENTS

37 CFR 3.21,  37 CFR 3.24,  37 CFR 3.28,  37 CFR 3.31  
The USPTO will record assignments relating to international patent
applications which designate the US. The assignment must identify the
application by the international application number. Each document submitted
for recording must be accompanied by a cover sheet referring to the
international application. A sample recordation form cover sheet is contained
in Annex US.XV. Each cover sheet must contain:

1) the name of the party conveying the interest;

2) the name and address of the party receiving the interest;

3) a description of the interest conveyed or transaction to be recorded;

4) the application number;

5) the name and address of the party to whom correspondence concerning the
request to record the document should be mailed;

6) the number of applications, patents or registrations identified in the
cover sheet and the total fee;

7) the date the document was executed;

8) a statement by the party submitting the document that to the best of the
person’s knowledge and belief, the information contained on the cover sheet is
true and correct and any copy submitted is a true copy of the original
document; and

9) the signature of the party submitting the document.

US.45

Assignments may be filed electronically via the Electronic Patent Assignment
System (EPAS). EPAS may be accessed directly at the following web address:
<https://epas.uspto.gov>. General information about the electronic filing of
assignments may be obtained from the Assignment Services Division Customer
Service Desk at (1-571) 272-3350 during regular business hours or via e-mail
directed to EPAS@uspto.gov. Applicants should note that assignments may NOT be
filed via the EFS-Web/Patent Center electronic filing system.

US.46 PUBLICATION OF APPLICATIONS

37 CFR 1.211,  37 CFR 1.213,  37 CFR 1.221  
Each international application in compliance with 35 USC 371 and continuing
application (refer to paragraph US.39) from an international application will
be published promptly after the expiration of eighteen months from the
earliest filing date for which a benefit is sought, unless the application (1)
is no longer pending; (2) is subject to national security provisions; (3) has
issued as a patent; or (4) was filed with a nonpublication request in
compliance with 37 CFR 1.213(a). (A nonpublication request may not be filed if
the international application designated any States in addition to or other
than the United States of America.) The publication fee (refer to Annex US.I)
must be paid before the patent will be granted. If the application is not
published under this section, the publication fee (if paid) will be refunded.

US.47 PROVISIONAL RIGHTS

35 USC 154(d),  37 CFR 1.417  
35 USC 154(d) provides for provisional rights based on international
applications. A patent will include the right to obtain a reasonable royalty
from any person who partakes of any of the actions listed in 35 USC 154(d)(1)
during the period commencing on the date of the publication under PCT Article
21(2)(a) of the international application designating the US, if the
publication is in English, or if the publication is in a language other than
English, on the date the USPTO receives a translation of the publication in
the English language, and ending on the date the patent is issued. The
submission of the international publication or an English language translation
of the international application pursuant to 35 USC 154(d)(4) must clearly
identify the international application to which it pertains (37 CFR 1.5(a))
and, unless it is being submitted pursuant to 37 CFR 1.495, be clearly
identified as a submission pursuant to 35 USC 154(d)(4). Otherwise, the
submission will be treated as a filing under 35 USC 111(a). Such submissions
should be marked “Mail Stop PCT.” The right to obtain a reasonable royalty is
not available unless the invention as claimed in the patent is substantially
identical to the invention claimed in the published international application.

US.48 FORMS

All forms are available online at:  
<http://www.uspto.gov/patents/apply/forms>

##  Annexes

Annex US.I - Fees

The amounts of these fees change periodically. The United States Patent and
Trademark Office or the current USPTO Fee Schedule should be consulted for the
applicable amounts at:  
<https://www.uspto.gov/learning-and-resources/fees-and-payment/uspto-fee-
schedule>

National fee

A national fee calculation sheet appears in Annex US.III

Basic national fee (37 CFR 1.492(a))

320 USD

Small entity (128 USD) 12

Micro entity (64 USD) 13

Search fee (37 CFR 1.492(b)):

— IPRP (Chapter II) prepared by the IPEA/US or the written opinion was
prepared by the ISA/US, all claims presented satisfied provisions of PCT
Article 33(1) to (4)

0 USD

Small entity (0 USD) 12

Micro entity (0 USD) 13

— International search fee paid to the USPTO as ISA

140 USD

Small entity (56 USD) 12

Micro entity (28 USD) 13

— Search report has been prepared by an ISA other than the US and is provided
or has been previously communicated by the IB to the USPTO

540 USD

Small entity (216 USD) 12

Micro entity (108 USD) 13

— All other situations

700 USD

Small entity (280 USD) 12

Micro entity (140 USD) 13

Examination fee (37 CFR 1.492(c)):

— IPRP (Chapter II) prepared by the IPEA/US or the written opinion was
prepared by the ISA/US, all claims presented satisfied provisions of PCT
Article 33(1) to (4)

0 USD

Small entity (0 USD) 12

Micro entity (0 USD) 13

— All other situations

800 USD

Small entity (320 USD) 12

Micro entity (160 USD) 13

For every 50 sheets or fraction thereof of the specification and drawings that
exceeds 100 sheets (excluding any sequence listing or computer program listing
filed in an electronic medium) (37 CFR 1.492(j))

420 USD

Small entity (168 USD) 12

Micro entity (84 USD) 13

Additional claims fee, where there are more than three claims in independent
form, for each independent claim in excess of 3 (37 CFR 1.492(d))

480 USD

Small entity (192 USD) 12

Micro entity (96 USD) 13

Additional claims fee, where there are more than 20 claims (whether in
independent or dependent form), for each claim in excess of 20 (37 CFR
1.492(e))

100 USD

Small entity (40 USD) 12

Micro entity (20 USD) 13

A multiple dependent claim fee, where the application contains one or more
multiple dependent claim(s), per application (37 CFR 1.492(f))

860 USD

Small entity (344 USD) 12

Micro entity (172 USD) 13

In computing the claims fee, a multiple dependent claim is to be treated as if
it were the same number of separate claims as the number of claims on which it
depends; the same applies to any claim depending from a multiple dependent
claim (e.g., a claim depending on three claims requires a fee of three
dependent claims)

Surcharge for filing any of the search fee, the examination fee, or the oath
or declaration after the date of commencement of the national stage (37 CFR
1.492(h))

160 USD

Small entity (64 USD) 12

Micro entity (32 USD) 13

Processing fee for filing English translation of an international application
after the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1) (37 CFR
1.492(i))

140 USD

Small entity (56 USD) 12

Micro entity (28 USD) 13

Reductions of the national fee

Reductions of the national fee are indicated under the national fees listed
above.

Other fees

Publication fee (37 CFR 1.18(d)(1))

0 USD

Small entity (0 USD) 12

Micro entity (0 USD) 13

Publication fee for republication (37 CFR 1.18(d)(3))

320 USD

Small entity (320 USD) 12

Micro entity (320 USD) 13

Utility issue fee (37 CFR 1.18(a)(1))

1,200 USD

Small entity (480 USD) 12

Micro entity (240 USD) 13

Reissue issue fee (37 CFR 1.18(a)(1))

1,200 USD

Small entity (480 USD) 12

Micro entity (240 USD) 13

Maintenance fees:

Maintenance fees are payable for international applications filed on or after
12 December 1980. Check the current USPTO Fee Schedule for current amounts of
the maintenance fees at the time payment is due at:  
<https://www.uspto.gov/learning-and-resources/fees-and-payment/uspto-fee-
schedule>

— for maintaining patent in force beyond four years (due by three years and
six months after grant) (37 CFR 1.20(e))

2,000 USD

Small entity (800 USD) 12

Micro entity (400 USD) 13

— for maintaining patent in force beyond eight years (due seven years and six
months after grant) (37 CFR 1.20(f))

3,760 USD

Small entity (1,504 USD) 12

Micro entity (752 USD) 13

— for maintaining patent in force beyond 12 years (due by 11 years and six
months after grant) (37 CFR 1.20(g))

7,700 USD

Small entity (3,080 USD) 12

Micro entity (1,540 USD) 13

Mega-Sequence Listing filing fee:

— submission of sequence listing of 300 MB to 800 MB (37 CFR 1.21(o)(1))

1,060 USD

Small entity (424 USD) 12

Micro entity (212 USD) 13

— submission of sequence listing of more than 800 MB (37 CFR 1.21(o)(2))

10,500 USD

Small entity (4,200 USD) 12

Micro entity (2,100 USD) 13

Patent application processing fees

Extension fee for response pursuant to 37 CFR 1.136(a):

— within first month (37 CFR 1.17(a)(1))

220 USD

Small entity (88 USD) 12

Micro entity (44 USD) 13

— within second month (37 CFR 1.17(a)(2))

640 USD

Small entity (256 USD) 12

Micro entity (128 USD) 13

— within third month (37 CFR 1.17(a)(3))

1,480 USD

Small entity (592 USD) 12

Micro entity (296 USD) 13

— within fourth month (37 CFR 1.17(a)(4))

2,320 USD

Small entity (928 USD) 12

Micro entity (464 USD) 13

— within fifth month (37 CFR 1.17(a)(5))

3,160 USD

Small entity (1,264 USD) 12

Micro entity (632 USD) 13

Submission of information disclosure statement pursuant to 37 CFR 1.97(c) and
(d) (37 CFR 1.17(p))

260 USD

Small entity (104 USD) 12

Micro entity (52 USD) 13

For filing a petition to the Commissioner

Petition fee:

— for restoration of the right of priority to a prior foreign application
under 37 CFR 1.55(c) (37 CFR 1.17(m))

2,100 USD

Small entity (840 USD) 12

Micro entity (420 USD) 13

— for acceptance of an unintentionally delayed claim for priority to a prior
foreign application under 37 CFR 1.55(e) (37 CFR 1.17(m))

2,100 USD

Small entity (840 USD) 12

Micro entity (420 USD) 13

— for acceptance of a certified copy of a foreign priority application
submitted after the expiration of the applicable time period under 37 CFR
1.55(f) (37 CFR 1.17(g))

220 USD

Small entity (88 USD) 12

Micro entity (44 USD) 13

— for restoration of the right of priority to a prior-filed US provisional
application under 37 CFR 1.78(b) (37 CFR 1.17(m))

2,100 USD

Small entity (840 USD) 12

Micro entity (420 USD) 13

— for acceptance of an unintentionally delayed claim for the benefit of a
prior-filed US provisional application under 37 CFR 1.78(c) (37 CFR 1.17(m))

2,100 USD

Small entity (840 USD) 12

Micro entity (420 USD) 13

— for acceptance of an unintentionally delayed claim for the benefit of a
prior-filed US non-provisional application or international application under
37 CFR 1.78(e) (37 CFR 1.17(m))

2,100 USD

Small entity (840 USD) 12

Micro entity (420 USD) 13

— for revival of an unintentionally abandoned application under 37 CFR
1.137(a) (37 CFR 1.17(m))

2,100 USD

Small entity (840 USD) 12

Micro entity (420 USD) 13

— for decisions on questions not specifically provided for (37 CFR 1.182) (37
CFR 1.17(f))

420 USD

Small entity (168 USD) 12

Micro entity (84 USD) 13

How can payment of fees be effected?

All payments must be made in US dollars

Any payment may be effected by:

— United States Postal Service money order (37 CFR 1.23)

— check (37 CFR 1.23)

— USPTO deposit account (37 CFR 1.25)

— credit card (37 CFR 1.23(b))

Money orders and checks must be payable in United States dollars to the
“Director of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.” Remittance from foreign
countries must be payable and immediately negotiable in the United States of
America for the full amount of the fee required. All payments must indicate
the complete application number, the name of applicant and the type of fee
being paid

Payment for all fees may be made using one of the following credit cards:
MasterCard, VISA, American Express and Discover. Payment using a debit card or
check card will not be accepted. Applicants making payments by credit card
should use form PTO-2038 contained in this Annex. Blanket authorizations of
payments to credit cards will not be accepted. The fee amount must be
specified. Credit card authorization may be used only one time. Subsequent
charges will require a new authorization. **ADVISORY** : If filing by EFS-
Web/Patent Center, do **NOT** attach the PTO-2038 form as a PDF along with
your EFS-Web/Patent Center submission. Please be advised that this is not
recommended and by doing so**your credit card information may be displayed via
PAIR**. To protect your information, it is recommended paying fees online by
using the electronic payment method. The PTO-2038 should only be mailed or
faxed to the USPTO. The PTO-2038 may not be faxed to the USPTO when paying the
basic national fee.

For information concerning electronic transfer of funds to the USPTO, please
contact Jusu Jallah, Office of Finance at:  
(571) 272-7473 or (571) 272-6500  
fax (571) 273-7473  
Applicants choosing to pay by electronic transfer should ensure that the full
amount of the fee due is received by the USPTO. There is a danger of loss of
rights if bank charges are deducted

Additional information regarding acceptable methods for paying fees to the
USPTO can be found at:  
<https://www.uspto.gov/learning-and-resources/fees-and-payment/accepted-
payment-methods>

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex US.II - Credit card payment form (Form
PTO-2038)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_us.pdf)

[Annex US.III - Transmittal letter to the US as DO/EO (Form
PTO-1390)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_us.pdf)

[Annex US.IV - Application data sheet (Form
PTO/AIA/14)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_IV_us.pdf)

[Annex US.V - “Micro entity” certification, gross income basis (Form
PTO/SB/15A)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_V_us.pdf)

[Annex US.VI - “Micro entity” certification, institution of higher education
basis (Form PTO/SB/15B)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_VI_us.pdf)

[Annex US.VII - Declaration of the inventor (Form
PTO/AIA/01)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_VII_us.pdf)

[Annex US.VIII - Substitute statement in lieu of declaration of the inventor
(Form PTO/AIA/02)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_VIII_us.pdf)

[Annex US.IX - Power of attorney (Form
PTO/AIA/80)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_IX_us.pdf)

[Annex US.X - Power of attorney to joint inventor(s) (Form
PTO/AIA/81)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_X_us.pdf)

[Annex US.XI - Power of attorney (Form
PTO/AIA/82)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_XI_us.pdf)

[Annex US.XII - Information disclosure statement (Form PTO/SB/08a &
08b)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_XII_us.pdf)

[Annex US.XIII - Recordation form cover sheet (Form
PTO-1595)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_XIII_us.pdf)

[Annex US.XIV - Petition for revival of unintentionally abandoned application
(Form PTO/SB/64PCT)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_XIV_us.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a This Office has limited its availability as International Searching
Authority to 250 international applications per quarter. For further details,
refer to
<https://www.uspto.gov/web/offices/com/sol/og/2014/week52/TOC.htm#ref20>  
2 ^ a This Authority is competent only where it has not received more than 100
international applications from the USPTO during the relevant fiscal quarter.
For further information, refer to
<http://www.uspto.gov/sites/default/files/documents/mod-ilpo-isa-ipea.pdf>  
3 ^ a This Authority is competent only if it has not received more than 10,000
international applications from the USPTO during the five year period from 1
July 2023 to 30 June 2028, and not more than 500 applications each quarter.  
4 ^ a This Authority is competent provided that it has not received more than
75 international applications in English from the USPTO during any fiscal
quarter.  
5 ^ a b c d e f This Authority is competent only if the international search
is or has been carried out by that Office.  
6 ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m This amount is applicable in case of filing by a
“small entity”. For further details on the entitlement to and the
establishment of “small entity” status, refer to
<http://www.uspto.gov/web/offices/pac/mpep/s509.html#d0e30961> and 37 CFR 1.27
at: <http://www.uspto.gov/web/offices/pac/mpep/consolidated_rules.pdf>.  
7 ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m This amount is applicable in case of filing by a
“micro entity”. For further details on the entitlement to and the
establishment of “micro entity” status, refer to
<http://www.uspto.gov/web/offices/pac/mpep/s509.html#ch500_d1ff69_210b3_1ca>
and 37 CFR 1.29 at:
<http://www.uspto.gov/web/offices/pac/mpep/consolidated_rules.pdf>.  
8 ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o The amount in parentheses is applicable in
case of filing by a “small entity” (refer to paragraphs US. 19-21).  
9 ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o The amount in parentheses is applicable in
case of filing by a “micro entity” (refer to paragraphs US. 19-21).  
10 ^ a Refer to paragraphs US 23-26.  
11 ^ a Should be filed within three months from performing the acts for
entering the national phase (refer to 37 CFR 1.491).  
12 ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z { | } ~       The amount in parentheses is applicable in case of filing by a “small entity.” “Small entity” status can be established by a simple written assertion of entitlement to “small entity” status, or by payment of the exact amount of the “small entity” basic national fee as set forth in 37 CFR 1.492(a) (refer to 37 CFR 1.27, paragraph US.14 and Annex US.VI).   
13 ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z { | } ~       The amount in parentheses is applicable in case of filing by a “micro entity”. For further details on the establishment of “micro entity” status, refer to page 75033 at: <http://www.uspto.gov/aia_implementation/77fr75019.pdf>.   

Change(s) as of 2 May 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental Organization

Location:

Customer Service Window  
Knox Building  
501 Dulany Street  
Alexandria  
VA 22314  
United States of America

(The Customer Service Window is located in room 1D80 of the Knox Building)

  

Close

Current version applicable from 2 May 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

