####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
VC - Useful informationVC - International PhaseVC - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationVC - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeVC - National PhaseVC - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseVC - The procedure in the national PhaseVC - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide VC - Saint Vincent and the Grenadines  
Commerce and Intellectual Property Office (CIPO) (Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **15 September 2023**

(published on 15 September 2023)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
From now on, you will find here a summary of changes to each new version of
the PCT Applicant's Guide, as well as the detailed list of these changes.
Moreover, you can now easily access the historical versions of the Guide.  
  
  

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicantâ€™s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for VC - Commerce and Intellectual Property Office \(CIPO\) \(Saint Vincent
and the Grenadines\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Commerce and Intellectual Property Office (CIPO) (Saint Vincent and
the Grenadines)

List of currencies used in this document:

XCD (East Caribbean Dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=VC).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Article 64(5)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines

Two-letter code:

[VC](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=VC&doc-lang=EN)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines - Commerce and Intellectual Property Office
(CIPO) (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines)

Name of Office:

Commerce and Intellectual Property Office (CIPO) (Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines)

Location:

Ground Floor  
Methodist Commercial Building  
Granby Street  
Kingstown  
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(1-784) 456 15 16  
(1-784) 451 28 94

E-mail:

ciposvg@vincysurf.com

Website:

<http://www.cipo.gov.vc/cipo>

Facsimile:

(1-784) 457 13 97

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

No

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

Refer to corresponding Annex C

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[VC](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=VC&doc-lang=EN)

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines - Commerce and Intellectual Property Office
(CIPO) (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines)

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Patents

Utility certificates

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

Yes

Provisional protection after international publication:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

Within two months from the date of the invitation by the Office

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

No

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

The Office does not act as receiving Office

This Office has delegated its RO functions to RO/IB. Refer to [Annex
C(IB)](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-
lang=EN&doc-type=ANNEX) for more information.

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(3): 31 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

English

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, both as originally
filed and as amended, together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any
text matter of drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, both as originally filed and
as amended by the annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

National processing fee

1,000 XCD

Annual fee for the 4th year

200 XCD

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit of two months from the date of receipt of the
invitation

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in Saint Vincent and
the Grenadines

Who can act as agent?

Any attorney-at-law registered to practice in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, please refer to the Office for the applicable criteria and/or any fee
payable for such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

Information not yet available

##  Annexes

Annex VC.I - Fees

Information not yet available

Forms

Please refer to the Office.

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Change(s) as of 15 September 2023 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference.
Mouse hover the text to consult previous value)

Close

Current version applicable from 15 Sep 2023 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

