####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * ISA
  * SISA
  * IPEA
  
XN - Useful informationXN - International PhaseXN - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationXN - Annex D -
International Searching AuthorityXN - Annex SISA - International Searching
Authority (Supplementary Search)XN - Annex E - International Preliminary
Examining Authority

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide XN - Nordic Patent Institute  
Nordic Patent Institute

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **1 April 2024**

(published on 25 March 2024)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
ISA: ISA fees  
SISA: IB fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, 1 Nov 2023, 1 Jan 2024, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for XN - Nordic Patent Institute)).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Nordic Patent Institute

List of currencies used in this document:

CHF (Swiss franc), DKK (Danish krone), EUR (Euro), ISK (Icelandic krona), NOK
(Norwegian krone), SEK (Swedish krona), USD (US dollar)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=XN).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

The Office does not have any reservations, declarations, notifications or
incompatibilities.  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Organization:

Nordic Patent Institute

Two-letter code:

[XN](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=XN&doc-lang=EN)

Nordic Patent Institute - Nordic Patent Institute

Name of Office:

Nordic Patent Institute

Location:

Helgeshoj Allé 81  
2630 Taastrup  
Denmark

Mailing address:

Same as above

Telephone:

(45-43) 50 85 00

E-mail:

npi@npi.int

Website:

<http://www.npi.int>

Facsimile:

(45-43) 50 80 08

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by facsimile

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes,

within 14 days from the date of the transmission

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Refer to the Office

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

Refer to the Office

Provisional protection after international publication:

Refer to the Office

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

No

##  Annex D - International Searching Authority

International Searching Authority competent for the following Receiving
Offices:

[DK](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=DK&doc-lang=EN)

Denmark - Danish Patent and Trademark Office

,

[IS](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IS&doc-lang=EN)

Iceland - Icelandic Intellectual Property Office (ISIPO)

,

[NO](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=NO&doc-lang=EN)

Norway - Norwegian Industrial Property Office

,

[SE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SE&doc-lang=EN)

Sweden - Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV)

Search fee (PCT Rule 16):

This fee is payable to the receiving Office in the currency or one of the
currencies accepted by it (refer to Annex C)

1,751 CHF

13,750 DKK

1,845 EUR

274,600 ISK

20,880 NOK

20,750 SEK

1,989 USD

This fee is payable to the receiving Office in the currency or one of the
currencies accepted by it.

Additional search fee (PCT Rule 40.2):

13,750 DKK

This fee is payable to the International Searching Authority and only in
particular circumstances.

Fee for copies of documents cited in the international search report (PCT Rule
44.3):

per document 50 DKK

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.1 _ter_):

per page 3.25 DKK

Protest fee (PCT Rule 40.2(e)):

8,000 DKK

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rule 13 _ter_.1(c)):

Information not yet available

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the search fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded

Where the international application is withdrawn or is considered withdrawn,
under PCT Article 14(1), (3) or (4), before the start of the international
search:  
refund of 100%

Where the Authority benefits from an earlier international or international-
type search:  
refund of 50%

Where on an earlier application, the priority of which is claimed, a search
report has been issued by the Danish Patent and Trademark Office, the
Icelandic Intellectual Property Office (ISIPO), the Norwegian Industrial
Property Office or the Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV) and where
the Authority benefits from that search report:  
refund of 25%

Languages accepted for international search:

Danish,

English,

Icelandic,

Norwegian,

Swedish

Does the Authority accept informal comments on earlier search results where an
international application claims priority from an earlier application already
searched by this Authority?

No

Types of physical media accepted for the furnishing of nucleotide and/or amino
acid sequence listings:

CD-ROM, CD-R, DVD-ROM or DVD-R

Subject matter that will not be searched:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 39.1 with the
exception of any subject matter searched under the patent grant procedure in
accordance with the provisions of the Danish, Icelandic and Norwegian patent
laws

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent or a common
representative who was not indicated on the request form at the time of filing

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent or a common
representative who was not indicated on the request form at the time of filing

##  Annex SISA - International Searching Authority (Supplementary Search)

Fees payable to the International Bureau:

For further details on the payment of fees to the International Bureau, refer
to the WIPO website at <http://www.wipo.int/pct/en/fees/special.html>

Supplementary search fee (PCT Rule 45 _bis_.3):

This fee is fixed by the Authority in DKK and will be revised from time to
time to reflect currency fluctuations between DKK and CHF

— for a full search

1,751 CHF

— for a search of only the documentation in Danish, Icelandic, Norwegian and
Swedish

517 CHF

Supplementary search handling fee (PCT Rule 45 _bis_.2):

200 CHF

Late payment fee (PCT Rule 45 _bis_.4(c)):

100 CHF

Fees payable to the Authority:

Fee for copies of documents cited in the supplementary international search
report (PCT Rule 45 _bis_.7(c)):

50 DKK

Review fee (PCT Rule 45 _bis_.6(c)):

8,000 DKK

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.1 _ter_):

per page 3.25 DKK

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rules 13 _ter_.1(c) and 45 _bis_.5(c)):

Information not yet available

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the supplementary search fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded

The International Bureau shall refund this fee where the supplementary search
request has not yet been transmitted to the Authority and the international
application is withdrawn or considered withdrawn, or the supplementary search
request is withdrawn or considered not to have been submitted (refer to PCT
Rule 45 _bis_.3(d)):  
refund of 100%

The Authority shall refund this fee where work has not yet started and the
supplementary search request is considered not to have been submitted (refer
to PCT Rule 45 _bis_.3(e)):  
refund of 100%

Languages accepted for supplementary international search:

Danish,

English,

Icelandic,

Norwegian,

Swedish

Subject matter that will not be searched:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 39.1 with the
exception of any subject matter searched under the patent grant procedure in
accordance with the provisions of the Danish, Icelandic and Norwegian patent
laws

Scope of documentation included in the supplementary international search:

In addition to PCT minimum documentation, the Authority shall include at least
the documents held in its search collection in: Danish, Icelandic, Norwegian,
Swedish

Limitations on supplementary international search:

The Authority shall conduct a maximum of 500 supplementary international
searches per year

Types of physical media accepted for the furnishing of nucleotide and/or amino
acid sequence listings:

CD-ROM, CD-R, DVD-ROM or DVD-R

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent or a common
representative who was not indicated in the request form at the time of filing

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent or a common
representative who was not indicated in the request form at the time of filing

##  Annex E - International Preliminary Examining Authority

International Preliminary Examining Authority competent for the following
Receiving Offices:

[DK](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=DK&doc-lang=EN)

Denmark - Danish Patent and Trademark Office

,

[IS](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IS&doc-lang=EN)

Iceland - Icelandic Intellectual Property Office (ISIPO)

,

[NO](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=NO&doc-lang=EN)

Norway - Norwegian Industrial Property Office

,

[SE](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=SE&doc-lang=EN)

Sweden - Swedish Intellectual Property Office (PRV)

Preliminary examination fee (PCT Rule 58):

5,000 DKK

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority.

Additional preliminary examination fee (PCT Rule 68.3):

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority and
only in particular circumstances.

5,000 DKK

Handling fee (PCT Rule 57.1):

1,550 DKK

This fee is payable to the International Preliminary Examining Authority. It
is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee for copies of documents cited in the international preliminary examination
report (PCT Rule 71.2):

per document 50 DKK

Fee for copies of documents contained in the file of the international
application (PCT Rule 94.2):

per page 3.25 DKK

Protest fee (PCT Rule 68.3(e)):

8,000 DKK

Late furnishing fee (PCT Rule 13 _ter_.2):

Information not yet available

Conditions for refund and amount of refund of the preliminary examination fee:

Money paid by mistake, without cause, or in excess, will be refunded

In the cases provided for under PCT Rule 58.3:

— in the case of PCT Rules 54.4, 54 _bis_.1(b) and 58 _bis_.1(b):  
refund of 100%;

— in the case of PCT Rule 60.1(c):  
refund of the amount paid less the current amount of the transmittal fee

If the international application or the demand is withdrawn before the start
of the international preliminary examination:  
refund of 100%

Languages accepted for international preliminary examination:

Danish,

English,

Icelandic,

Norwegian,

Swedish

Subject matter that will not be examined:

The subject matter specified in items (i) to (vi) of PCT Rule 67.1 with the
exception of any subject matter examined under the patent grant procedure in
accordance with the provisions of the Danish, Icelandic and Norwegian patent
laws

Waiver of power of attorney:

Waivers of powers of attorney do not apply (PCT Rule 90.4(e) and 90.5(d))
where the agent or common representative submits any notice of withdrawal
during the international phase (PCT Rule 90 _bis_.1 to 90 _bis_.4, also refer
to International Phase, paragraph 11.048).

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a separate power of attorney is required:

Upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent or a common
representative who was not indicated on the request form or on the demand form
at the time of their filing

Has the Authority waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Yes

Particular instances in which a copy of a general power of attorney is
required:

Upon appointment of, or for any paper submitted by, an agent or a common
representative who was not indicated on the request form or on the demand form
at the time of their filing

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Change(s) as of 1 April 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex D - International Searching Authority

Search fee (PCT Rule 16):

This fee is payable to the receiving Office in the currency or one of the
currencies accepted by it (refer to Annex C)

1,751 CHF

13,750 DKK

1,845 EUR

274,600 ISK

20,880 NOK

20,750 SEK

1,989 USD

This fee is payable to the receiving Office in the currency or one of the
currencies accepted by it.

  

Additional search fee (PCT Rule 40.2):

13,750 DKK

This fee is payable to the International Searching Authority and only in
particular circumstances.

  

  
Annex SISA - International Searching Authority (Supplementary Search)

— for a full search

1,751 CHF

  

Close

Current version applicable from 1 Apr 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

