####  Processing

Please wait...

  *   *   * GENERAL INFO
  * RO
  * BIO
  * NATIONAL CHAPTER
  *   *   *   
ZA - Useful informationZA - International PhaseZA - Annex B - Information on
Contracting States or Intergovernmental OrganizationZA - Annex C - Receiving
OfficeZA - Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological
MaterialZA - National PhaseZA - Summary of requirements for entry into the
national phaseZA - The procedure in the national PhaseZA - Annexes

#  WIPO - PCT Applicant's Guide ZA - South Africa  
Companies and Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC) (South Africa)

#  Error Information Warning Confirmation

  

CancelNoYesOk

##

Applicable as from  **1 January 2024**

(published on 1 December 2023)

  
**Summary of latest changes in this version**  
RO: RO fees  
  
Consult the full list of the changes  

  
**Previous version(s):** You can consult previous versions of the document.
The only applicable version is the current version.  
15 Sep 2023, Current Version

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

##  Useful information

The PCT Applicant’s Guide is updated almost every week with information
received by the International Bureau.

In case of question, please contact the Office or the International Bureau
([pct.guide@wipo.int](mailto:pct.guide@wipo.int?subject=Contact from eGuide
for ZA - Companies and Intellectual Property Commission \(CIPC\) \(South
Africa\))).

List of abbreviations used in this document:

Office: Companies and Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC) (South Africa)

PA: Patents Acts 1978

Reg.: Patent Regulations 1978

List of currencies used in this document:

ZAR (South African rand)

Countries and Offices information:

The list of acronyms used for Offices is no longer shown as it has been
integrated in the mouseover functionality for each ST.3 code shown in this
document.  
Refer to [List of WIPO Standards, Recommendations and
Guidelines](http://www.wipo.int/standards/en/pdf/03-03-01.pdf) formerly Annex
K, List of country names and two-letter codes. It includes a list of short
names and two-letter codes accepted for use in indicating States, other
entities and intergovernmental organizations and their Offices in documents
relating to international applications under the PCT. The list is as set out
in WIPO Standard ST.3.  
Also refer to [PCT Contracting
States](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/pct_contracting_states.html) formerly
Annex A.

Office profile

For more technical information about the Office, refer to [ePCT Office
profile](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/OfficeProfile.xhtml?st3=ZA).

PCT Reservations, Declarations, Notifications and Incompatibilities

Article 64(5)  
Refer to [the full
list](https://www.wipo.int/pct/en/texts/reservations/res_incomp.html).

Office Closed dates

The Office is closed weekly on Saturday and Sunday

Additional closed dates can be consulted on the [Office Closed dates
page](https://pct.wipo.int/ePCTExternal/pages/ClosedDates.xhtml)

##  International Phase

##  Annex B - Information on Contracting States or Intergovernmental
Organization

Contracting State:

South Africa

Two-letter code:

[ZA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ZA&doc-lang=EN)

South Africa - Companies and Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC) (South
Africa)

Name of Office:

Companies and Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC) (South Africa)

Location:

77 Meintjies Street  
Block F  
Sunnyside  
Pretoria 0002  
South Africa

Mailing address:

Intellectual Property:  
Private Bag X400  
Pretoria 0001  
South Africa

Telephone:

(27-12) 394 50 01  
(27-12) 394 50 84

E-mail:

epct@cipc.co.za

Website:

<http://www.cipc.co.za>

Facsimile:

None

Does the Office accept the filing of documents by facsimile or the like means
(PCT Rule 92.4)?

Yes, by e-mail

Which kinds of documents may be so transmitted?

All kinds of documents

Must the original of the document be furnished in all cases?

Yes, within 14 days from the date of the transmission, if the transmitted
document is the international application, a replacement sheet containing
corrections or amendments of the international application, or a power of
attorney

No, only upon invitation in the case of other documents

Would the Office accept evidence of mailing a document, in case of loss or
delay, where a delivery service other than the postal authorities is used (PCT
Rule 82.1)?

Yes

Is the Office prepared to allow applicants to make applications available to
the WIPO Digital Access Service for Priority Documents (DAS) (PCT Rule
17.1(b-_bis_)?

No

Competent receiving Office(s) for international applications filed by
nationals or residents of this State:

[IB](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=IB&doc-lang=EN)

International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) -
International Bureau of WIPO

,

[ZA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ZA&doc-lang=EN)

South Africa - Companies and Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC) (South
Africa)

Does national legislation restrict the filing of international applications
with foreign Offices?

Refer to the Office

Competent designated (or elected) Office(s) for this State:

Refer to corresponding National Phase.

[ZA](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=ZA&doc-lang=EN)

South Africa - Companies and Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC) (South
Africa)

Types of protection available via the PCT:

Patents

Patents of addition

Availability under the national law for an international-type search (PCT
Article 15):

None

Provisional protection after international publication:

None

Information of interest if this Contracting State is designated (or elected)

Time when the name and address of the inventor must be given:

May be in the request or may be furnished later. If not already complied with
within the time limit applicable under PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office
will invite the applicant to comply with the requirement within a time limit
fixed in the invitation.

Are there special provisions concerning the deposit of microorganisms and
other biological material?

Yes, refer to Annex L.

##  Annex C - Receiving Office

Competent receiving Office for nationals and residents of:

South Africa

Language in which international applications may be filed:

English

Language accepted for language-dependent free text in the sequence listing:

The Office has not specifically notified the International Bureau of the
language that it accepts under PCT Rule 12.1(d).

Same as above

Language in which the request may be filed:

English

Number of copies required by the receiving Office if application filed on
paper:

3

Does the receiving Office accept the filing of international applications in
electronic form?

Yes, the Office accepts electronic filing via ePCT-Filing

For the relevant notifications by the Office, see Official Notices (PCT
Gazette) dated 4 June 2015, pages 92 _et seq._ and 1 December 2022, pages 322
_et seq._

Where the international application is filed in electronic form in accordance
with and to the extent provided for in Part 7 and Annex F of the
Administrative Instructions, the total amount of the international filing fee
is reduced (refer to “Fees payable to the receiving Office”).

Where the international application contains a sequence listing as a separate
part of the description, this must be furnished in accordance with Annex C of
the Administrative Instructions, that is, in compliance with WIPO Standard
ST.26 XML format; no fees are due for sequence listings filed in this format.
If the receiving Office does not accept international applications in
electronic form in such format, the international application will be
transmitted to the International Bureau as receiving Office (PCT Rule
19.4(a)(ii-_bis_)).

Does the receiving Office accept requests for restoration of the right of
priority (PCT Rule 26 _bis_.3)?

Yes, please refer to the Office for the applicable criteria and/or any fee
payable for such requests

Competent International Searching Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

Competent International Preliminary Examining Authority:

[AT](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AT&doc-lang=EN)

Austria - Austrian Patent Office

,

[AU](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=AU&doc-lang=EN)

Australia - Australian Patent Office

,

[EP](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=EP&doc-lang=EN)

European Patent Organisation - European Patent Office (EPO)

1,

[US](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/view-doc.xhtml?doc-code=US&doc-lang=EN)

United States of America - United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO)

2

Fees payable to the receiving Office:

Transmittal fee:

525 ZAR

International filing fee:

27,820 ZAR

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

310 ZAR

Reductions (under Schedule of Fees, item 4):

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

4,180 ZAR

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

6,280 ZAR

Search fee:

Refer to  
Annex D(AT)  
Annex D(AU)  
Annex D(EP)  
Annex D(US)

Fee for priority document (PCT Rule 17.1(b)):

210 ZAR

Is an agent required by the receiving Office?

No, if the applicant resides in South Africa  
Yes, if the applicant is a non-resident

Who can act as agent?

Any patent attorney or partnership registered before the Office

Waiver of power of attorney:

Has the Office waived the requirement that a separate power of attorney be
submitted?

Refer to the Office

Has the Office waived the requirement that a copy of a general power of
attorney be submitted?

Refer to the Office

##  Annex L - Deposits of Microorganisms and Other Biological Material

Requirements of designated and elected Offices

Only Offices whose applicable national law contains provisions concerning the
deposits of microorganisms and other biological material are listed in Annex
L. Unless otherwise indicated, deposits may be made for the purposes of patent
procedure before these Offices with any depositary institution having acquired
the status of international depositary authority under the Budapest Treaty on
the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the
Purposes of Patent Procedure.

For a list of these institutions refer to:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/pdf/idalist.pdf>

Notifications related thereto may be consulted under:

<http://www.wipo.int/treaties/en/registration/budapest/>

Further information concerning the requirements of international depository
authorities under the Budapest Treaty is available at:

<http://www.wipo.int/budapest/en/guide/index.html>

Time (if any) earlier than 16 months from priority date by which applicant
must furnish:

— the indications prescribed in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii):

None

— any additional indications:

None

Additional indications (if any) which must be given besides those prescribed
in Rule 13 _bis_.3(a)(i) to (iii) pursuant to notifications from the Office:

To the extent available to the applicant, relevant information on the
characteristics of the microorganism

Additional information

Deposits may also be made for the purposes of patent procedure before the
Companies and Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC) (South Africa) with any
depositary institution.

##  National Phase

##  Summary of requirements for entry into the national phase

Time limits applicable for entry into the national phase:

Under PCT Article 22(3): 31 months from the priority date  
Under PCT Article 39(1)(b): 31 months from the priority date

Translation of international application required into (one of) the following
language(s):

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

English

Required contents of the translation for entry into the national phase:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Under PCT Article 22: Description, claims (if amended, as amended only,
together with any statement under PCT Article 19), any text matter of
drawings, abstract

Under PCT Article 39(1): Description, claims, any text matter of drawings,
abstract (if any of those parts has been amended, only as amended by the
annexes to the international preliminary examination report)

Is a copy of the international application required in particular
circumstances?

No

National fees:

Must be furnished or paid within the time limit applicable under PCT Article
22 or 39(1).

Filing fee

590 ZAR

First annual fee

The first annual fee is due within three years from the international filing
date

130 ZAR

Exemptions, reductions or refunds of fees:

None

Special requirements of the Office (PCT Rule 51 _bis_):

Appointment of an agent if the applicant is not resident in South Africa 3

Proof of assignment or transfer of rights where the applicant is not the
inventor 4 5

Proof by the applicant concerning his right to claim priority of the earlier
application, if he did not apply himself for that earlier application 4 5

Verified translation of the international application to be furnished in
duplicate 4

Who can act as agent?

Any patent attorney registered before the Office

Does the Office accept requests for restoration of the right of priority (PCT
Rule 49 _ter_.2)?

Yes, please refer to the Office for the applicable criteria and/or any fee
payable for such requests

##  The procedure in the national Phase

ZA.01 FORM FOR ENTERING THE NATIONAL PHASE

PA Sec. 42E(1),  Reg. 67B  
The Office has available a special form for entering the national phase (refer
to Annex ZA.II).

ZA.02 AMENDMENT OF THE APPLICATION: TIME LIMITS

PA Sec. 43F(3) (k)  
The applicant may amend or correct the claims, description and drawings in the
international application at any time before the grant of the patent provided
that:

— the amendment does not introduce any new matter in the disclosure of the
invention; and

— the specification as amended does not include any claim which is not fairly
based on matter disclosed in the specification prior to the amendments.

ZA.03 CONDONATION OR CORRECTION OF IRREGULARITIES IN PROCEDURE

PA Sec. 89  
The Registrar or Commissioner of Patents may authorize the condonation or
correction of any irregularity in procedure in any proceedings before him,
provided that such condonation or correction is not detrimental to the
interests of any person.

ZA.04 FEES (MANNER OF PAYMENT)

The manner of payment of the fees indicated in the Summary and this chapter is
outlined in Annex ZA.I.

ZA.05 POWER OF ATTORNEY

PA Sec. 30,  Reg. 8,  Reg. 22(1),  Reg. 33  
An agent must be appointed by filing a power of attorney if the applicant is
not resident in South Africa. If a power of attorney is not filed at the time
of entry into the national phase, it may be filed within six months from the
date of filing of the application. The Registrar may, upon request of the
applicant, extend the time for filing the power of attorney.

ZA.06 RENEWAL FEES

Sec. 46(1),  Reg. 48(1)  
The first renewal fee is payable before the expiry of the third year from the
international filing date and thereafter, annually, till the expiry of the
patent. The amounts of the renewal fees are indicated in Annex ZA.I. A special
form is to be used for the payment of these fees (refer to Annex ZA.III). The
Office does not issue a reminder to the applicant for the payment of the
renewal fees.

##  Annexes

Annex ZA.I - Fees

National fee:

— application accompanied by a complete specification (Section 30(1))

590 ZAR

Fee for late claiming of priority, per month or part thereof (Section
31(1)(i))

50 ZAR

Application to the Registrar:

— to claim priority (Section 30(7))

50 ZAR

— to amend or to lodge a fresh application (Section 37)

50 ZAR

— for correction of clerical errors and amendment of documents (Section 50)

90 ZAR

Fee for late filing of documents (Sections 30(6) and 32)

50 ZAR

Renewal fees (Section 46(1)):

— before expiration of the 3rd year

130 ZAR

— before expiration of the 4th year

130 ZAR

— before expiration of the 5th year

130 ZAR

— before expiration of the 6th year

85 ZAR

— before expiration of the 7th year

85 ZAR

— before expiration of the 8th year

100 ZAR

— before expiration of the 9th year

100 ZAR

— before expiration of the 10th year

120 ZAR

— before expiration of the 11th year

120 ZAR

— before expiration of the 12th year

145 ZAR

— before expiration of the 13th year

145 ZAR

— before expiration of the 14th year

164 ZAR

— before expiration of the 15th year

164 ZAR

— before expiration of the 16th year

181 ZAR

— before expiration of the 17th year

181 ZAR

— before expiration of the 18th year

206 ZAR

— before expiration of the 19th year

206 ZAR

Extension fee for payment of renewal fees (Section 46(2)

90 ZAR

— thereafter for each month or part thereof (not exceeding five months)

50 ZAR

Application to restore lapsed patent (Section 47(1))

286 ZAR

Application to amend a provisional specification (Section 51(1))

70 ZAR

Application to amend a complete specification:

— before it is open to public inspection (Section 51(1))

70 ZAR

— after it is open to public inspection (Section 51(1))

242 ZAR

Fee for opposition in proceedings before the Registrar

90 ZAR

Fee for inspection of any file, document or register

4 ZAR

How can payment of fees be effected?

The payment of fees should be effected in South African rand using the
Office’s customer account. All payments must indicate the application number
(national, if already known; international, if the national number is not yet
known), the name of the applicant and the type of fee being paid, as well as
the CIPC customer code

For further details on how to create an account, please refer to:  
<http://www.cipc.co.za/index.php/register-your-business/banking-details/>

Forms

The following documents are maintained by the Office. Refer to the Office
website (Annex B) for latest version and other languages.

[Annex ZA.II - National Processing
Form](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_II_za.pdf)

[Annex ZA.III - Payment and Certificate of
Renewal](https://pctlegal.wipo.int/eGuide/forms/ax_III_za.pdf)

![](/eGuide/javax.faces.resource/spacer/dot_clear.gif.xhtml?ln=primefaces&v=6.1)

Notes:  
1 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office or by the Austrian Patent Office.  
2 ^ a The Office is competent only if the international search is or has been
carried out by that Office.  
3 ^ a If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under PCT
Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with the
requirement within a time limit of six months.  
4 ^ a b c If not already complied with within the time limit applicable under
PCT Article 22 or 39(1), the Office will invite the applicant to comply with
the requirement within a time limit of two months from the date of receipt of
the invitation.  
5 ^ a b This requirement may be satisfied if the corresponding declaration has
been made in accordance with PCT Rule 4.17.  

Change(s) as of 1 January 2024 (Highlighted in blue for easy reference. Mouse
hover the text to consult previous value)

  
Annex C - Receiving Office

International filing fee:

27,820 ZAR

This fee is reduced by 90% if certain conditions apply (refer to Annex C(IB)).

  

Fee per sheet in excess of 30:

310 ZAR

  

Electronic filing (the request in character coded format):

4,180 ZAR

  

Electronic filing (the request, description, claims and abstract in character
coded format):

6,280 ZAR

  

Close

Current version applicable from 1 Jan 2024 , printed on 2 May 2024

2.0 #56 - 2024-04-24T13:24:54.730+02:00

